All summer, I have been going to the Green Shack program at the playground near my house. This morning, my Green Shack leader introduces us to two new leaders from the Flying Eagle program. They are wearing blue shirts, just like my Green Shack leader. They will be leading activities with us for the whole week! The new leaders tell us that the Flying Eagle program teaches kids about Aboriginal culture. They say that "Aboriginal" means the people who first lived on this land, and they include First Nations, Métis, and Inuit people. My next-door neighbor says that she is Métis, and two brothers tell us that they are Inuit. Our leaders teach us about the medicine wheel. They say that each nation has its own colours, but that the Cree people of Treaty 6 -- where Edmonton is -- use blue, white, red, and yellow, and these colours represent the different people of the earth. They ask us about our heritage, and one kid says he is Somalian, and one says she is part Ukrainian and part Irish. A few say they are Chinese. I don't know what I am! We all have lots of fun playing together all day. At suppertime, I tell my family about my day at Flying Eagle. I ask my dad what we are. He says, "Do you mean, what is our heritage?" I nod. He points to a beaded flower on our wall, and says, "I am Cree, and your mom is Dene. We are First Nations. Our people are known for our beautiful beadwork. We are proud to be Aboriginal!" On Tuesday morning, I bring my little sister with me to the playground. The leaders take us on a bison hunt, but we don't hunt a real bison. We just pretend to. We practice our aim by throwing sticks through a rolling hoop. After the bison hunt, we make some mini drums. Our leaders tell us that the drum is the heartbeat of the people. When I am finished making my drum, I help my sister with hers. Later on, we make some totem poles. We pick animals that make us think of our family members, and we draw pictures of them on a paper towel roll. I draw a puppy for my little sister, because she is so cuddly, and a spider for myself, because I am good at making things. I draw a bear to be my mom, because she takes good care of us, and a fish for my dad, because he loves fishing. My sister mostly draws scribbles, but she tells me she is drawing a fish and a cat. My sister and I are excited to show our totem poles to our family when we get home. My dad is proud of us and puts them on the counter. He shows us a picture of him and a real totem pole from when he traveled to B.C. He tells us that Cree and Dene people do not build totem poles, but Aboriginal people near the ocean in B.C. do. He says that animals, like the ones in the totem poles, teach us many important things. On Wednesday morning, we make dreamcatchers. Our leader tells us that the Anishinaabe were the first Aboriginal people to make dreamcatchers. They catch bad dreams in the web, and the good dreams float down the feathers to us. While we work on our crafts, our leaders tell us about the seven sacred teachings of the Anishinaabe: humility, honesty, respect, courage, wisdom, truth, and love. I decide to give my dreamcatcher to my grandma so I can show her how much I love her. After lunch, one of the leaders says we are going to "smudge." Smudging is one of the ways that Aboriginal people connect with the Creator. Our leader sets out a little metal pan and puts a braid of long grass that she calls "sweetgrass" inside. She lights the sweetgrass and it starts to smoke. The smoke smells sweet. I ask the Creator for good thoughts, good words, and good feelings as I wave the smoke over myself. Our leader says that each person can ask for the same things in their own way. After smudging, we get to have a fire! Our leaders show us how to make bannock. We roll the dough into a ball and put it on the end of a stick, and roast it over the fire like a marshmallow. It's delicious! It tastes like soft, warm bread. I put honey all over mine, which gets a bit messy, so I have to lick it all up. When we come home, my dad takes a deep breath in as he hugs me and asks if I was smudging today. How did he know!? He tells me he can smell the sweetgrass on my clothes. I fall asleep to the smell of sweetgrass smoke that is still on me. On Thursday, we play some neat games from the Arctic. Our leaders tell us that the Inuit people made up these games a long time ago, and they still play them. Everyone's favourite game is "butt bump," where we try to bump each other off balance using our butts. We all laugh a lot together! After the hand games, we make Métis sash crafts by braiding colourful pieces of yarn together. Each of the colours means something important to the Métis people, like green, which stands for growth and success. Weaving all the colours together shows how the Aboriginal and European cultures of the Métis people are woven together. Afterwards, the leaders let us try on real Métis sashes. The boys wear their sashes around their waists, and the girls wear them over one shoulder. In the afternoon, we play lacrosse. It is kind of like hockey, except that we have to throw a little ball using a stick, and we run around instead of skate. I am a very fast runner! …but using the stick is tricky. I score a goal on one of the leaders, though! She tells us that Aboriginal people invented lacrosse. Cool! My friend can't run as fast as me, but he's good at catching the ball. My dad picks me up early from Flying Eagle to go to Aboriginal Family Night. I tell my friends there about all the games we play and the crafts we make at Flying Eagle. One of my friends says that Flying Eagle will be at the playground near his house next week, and his mom says I can go with him if I want. I can't wait! On Friday morning, I head to the playground for the last day of Flying Eagle at my playground. We are playing a hide-and-seek game called Eagle Eyes -- my favourite game! -- on the playground when it starts to rain. Our leaders tell us that the rain is a blessing, and we should be happy about it. I'm happy -- I love to play in the puddles! After lunchtime, one of our leaders teaches us some words in Cree. Tân'si means hello, and amiskwaciwâskahikan is the Cree name for Edmonton. That one is hard to say! Some of the other kids in the group teach us how to say some words in their own languages. This is fun! Just before we go home, we have a talking circle, where everybody gets to say what they thought about the week. Sometimes I talk slowly, but I like that nobody rushes me when I am holding the feather in the talking circle. I give my leaders a hug at the end. When I go home, my grandpa and grandma are there. They are visiting us for the weekend. I tell them all about my week at Flying Eagle. My grandma gives me a hug when I give her my dreamcatcher and says, "I'm glad you have a chance to learn about Aboriginal culture while you're having fun in a safe space. That's something all kids deserve." She's right -- I'm going to tell all my friends about Flying Eagle!

My mom just told me we are moving to Edmonton.She is talking on the phone to a lady from an organization called New in Town in the city.The lady is helping her figure out what we should do. I go to see my grandma.I feel sad. I don't want to leave.She tells me that she loves me, and that I will get to see and do all kinds of neat things in the city. I put my clothes and my favourite toys in my backpack. I say goodbye to my house.We get on a big bus. My tummy feels yucky, so I have a nap on my moms lap. She wakes me up when we get close to Edmonton so I can see the city lights.My mom says a lady from New in Town will pick us up from the bus station. We go to live with my auntie. I share a room with my cousin.I like sleeping in a bunk bed!But sometimes I can't sleep because he snores, and the cars outside are so loud at night. I have to go with my mom so she can fill out some forms.The New in Town lady helps us take a big blue bus.There are so many people that we have to stand on the bus while it's moving! My auntie takes me and my mom to Family Night at a school near her house.The New in Town lady is there. She introduces me to some kids who will be in my class.We have fun learning some cool hoop-dancing moves. I feel nervous about my first day of school.I ride a school bus just like my old bus.I see my friends from Family Night and we play together at recess.There are so many kids in my class! I join the soccer team at my school. We play every Friday at lunch.One of my teammates invites me to his birthday party.We go swimming at West Edmonton Mall. I love the waterslides! My auntie takes me and my cousin trick-or-treating.There are so many houses, and they are so close together.We don't have to walk very far to get a whole bagful of candy! My mom gets a new job so I have to go to afterschool care.I meet some new kids from other grades.My favourite activity is when we all sing and play music together. I like to play my drum. We are moving into a new house!We don't have very much furniture, but now I have my own bed.I miss sleeping in my cousin's bunk bed, but I can sleep better now without his snoring. I have a new babysitter.She takes me tobogganing, and afterwards we go inside the Muttart Conservatory to warm up.We see lots of neat plants from all over the world. I love smelling the flowers and feeling so warm in the pyramids even though it is winter. On New Years, my family takes the train to downtown.All of the buildings are sooo tall.We see the New in Town lady again. She counts down the seconds with us, and gives me a big hug at midnight. My mom says I can pick one friend to come to my birthday party. I pick my new best friend.We go have Indian tacos at Bannock Burger.He had never had an Indian taco before, but he loves it! I had a bad day at school today.I forgot my lunch and my mom was at work so she couldn't bring it to me. PLUS some kids in my class teased me for being different.I don't like it here. I want to move back home. My mom takes me and my cousin to a round dance that Bent Arrow is putting on.I see lots of people I know.I have lots of fun dancing with my friends. Today has been another bad day at school.I miss my bus home, and at first I feel scared. I wonder if I will have to sleep at my school all alone. The secretary calls my mom and she comes to pick me up.While I wait, my science teacher shows me a cool experiment! He tells me it's okay to be different, and I feel a lot better than my last bad day. It's the last day of school before summer holidays.Our class has a hot dog roast and plays games in a park.I'm not too sad, because I know I'll see my friends at camps and swimming lessons during the summer. My grandma calls me.She asks me if I like living in Edmonton.I miss seeing her every day, but I like that there are so many things for me to see and do here.I ask her to come visit us soon so I can show her around and introduce her to all my friends. I am visiting my family back on my reserve.My cousin just found out that his family has to move to Edmonton. He feels sad.I know how he feels. I tell him that it's not so bad—it's exciting to learn and see all the new things when you're new in town!

Chuskit woke up early that morning. It was a very special day and she was too excited to sleep. She eagerly looked out of the room through the window next to her bed.It was spring time in Ladakhand the apricot trees were in full bloom. Two magpies had already begun their day and were busy looking for insects to eat. Her Ama-ley was awake too. She could hear her in the kitchen making gur-gur tea. Chuskit had been awake for the last hour. This was a day she was going to remember for a long time. Can you guess why?No, it was not Losar, the New Year festival. That was many months away. Nor was it any special day in her village, like the gonpa festival, or a wedding day.Today was going to beChuskit's first day at school. At nine years, she had waited a long, long time for this. The school was not very far away from her home. To getthere, you had to walk up tothe main road. Just beforethe prayer wheel, you tookthe path to the left of theroad that ran along a narrow stream. Near the poplar trees you crossed the stream by jumping over the big rocks.Once you got to the otherside, a short walk up a slopetook you to the school. Allthe children of Skitpo Yul,Chuskit's village, walked toschool everyday and withease. But not little Chuskit. She had a disability and could not walk. Chuskit was born with legs that did not work like everyone else's. Her father had taken her to the village amchi and then to the doctors in Leh. But no amount of medicine had helped her walk.At first, Chuskit did not realise that she was in any way different from the Stobdan her younger brother, or her cousins. But soon there were many things she could not do as easily as them.“That does not matter,” her Aba-ley would tell her whenever she felt sad. “You can stitch better than any of them. And you draw very well.” Aba-ley often brought her some colour pencils from Leh. Chuskit would sit at the kitchen window everyday and draw what she saw while her Ama-ley cooked. She could see her family's animals being taken to graze every morning.She could see the blue waters of the stream that flowed near by. And she would be the first one to announce the arrival ofa visitor to their house! Chuskit used a chair fitted with wheels to move around. Elders called it a wheelchair. You could move it in any direction- forward, left, right and even backward - by moving the wheels with your hands. You only needed to have really strong arms to push the weight of your body and the chair.When Aba-ley first brought the wheelchair home, everyone in her family was very excited. “Now I won't have to carryChuskit everywhere. I can wheel her around,” said Ama-ley, with tears of happiness in her eyes.“And I will be able to gowherever I want!” cried Chuskit excitedly.“Please, please, could I ride on your wheelchair once in a way?” begged Stobdan.He wanted to wheel it around too. It looked like fun. Billa, the big black cat, jumped on to the wheel-chair and stretchedacross the seat.“Yes this is far more comfortable than the sack cloth I sleep on,” she purred. Slowly, Chuskit learnt to useher wheelchair. She would ask her mother to seat her in the wheelchair outside her home every evening.From here she would watch children returning from school, chattering and laughing merrily in groups. In a while, the evening bus would return from Leh, bringing back people from work and the market place. How much more exciting the world was from here than from the kitchen window! One evening when Chuskit was sitting outside the house with her grandfather, a young boy came up to her. He carried a letter which he handed over to her grandfather. “Julley! The bus driver asked me to give this to you,” he said.“My name is Abdul,” he said turning to Chuskit. “I study Class 6 at the Government School. I have often wondered why you don't come to school.”“Julley, Abdul,” said Chuskit. “I have never been to school. The path to the school is too uneven and pebbly and my wheelchair will get stuck. Besides, I cannot cross the little stream in front of the school. It would be very difficult for my parents to carry me to school and back everyday.”“But would you like to come to school?” asked Abdul. “Of course!” replied Chuskit. “I hear my younger brother talk of all that he does at school. I want to study like all of you, make friends, play games, wear a uniform and even write exams. Sometimes my brotherteaches me songs that he has learnt at school and I love it. You may not believe this, but I sometimes dream of carrying a school bag, even eating packed lunch...”“Enough! Enough!” interrupted her grandfather.“Stop dreaming, Chuskit. You know you cannot go to school. I have told you this many times. Learn as much as you can at home.” “Meme-ley, please,” pleadedChuskit softly with tears in her eyes as her grandfather walked away angrily. “Meme-ley does not understand how I feel,” said Chuskit. “I remember the day my brother recited his tables with such pride, even the time he learned to read! My parents were very happy as they have never been to school. I too want to learn to read and do math. Do you understand?”“I do,” said Abdul.“Chuskit, I will see you again. I must go now. My mother will be waiting for me. Julley!” The next day, Abdul wentstraight to the Headmaster'sroom after assembly.“Julley, Azhang-ley!” he said. “I want to talk to you about a girl from our village who does not go to school. Her name is Chuskit. She is Stobdan's sister.”“Oh yes,” replied theHeadmaster. “I know her. She is disabled, isn't she?” “Yes, Azhang-ley. She uses a wheelchair to move around but cannot reach school, as the path from her home is too rough and uneven. I was wondering if we could do anything to help her, Azhang-ley. We could all get together and level the path and also build a small bridge across the stream.”“That's very thoughtful of you, Abdul,” said the Headmaster as he patted him on the back. “What made you think of Chuskit and her problems?”“Azhang-ley, last week we read about thefundamental rights of citizens in our civics class. All children have a right to education. That includes Chuskit as well, does it not?”“Yes, you are right, Abdul. Let me discuss this with the other teachers,” replied the Headmaster. The next day the Headmaster called all the teachers to a meeting. He shared Abdul's ideas with the group and asked the teachers what they felt. “Impossible!” said one of them. “How can we have a disabled child in our school? How will she be able to write, play and go to the toilet like the other children do?” “That's exactly what we have to workout,” said the Headmaster. “I hear that in the village of Mentok Yul, the Village Education Committee has helped build a special toilet for one of their disabled children. We could ask them what they have done. But first we will have to get Chuskit to school. Then we could think of ways of helping her do things in school.” Two weeks later there was great excitement at the Government School. All the children had gathered outside in the playground. They had come to school without their school bags:there were going to be no classes today! The teachers divided the children into groups. One group worked in front of Chuskit's house and another on the path along the stream. A third group with some of the older children worked hard to help some of their teachers build a strong wooden bridge across the stream. The children laughed and sang as they removed stones and rocks, levelled paths and carried wooden planks to the stream. The Headmaster went from one group to another, making sure that all went according to plan. Chuskit's parents provided everyone with hot tea and biscuits.Chuskit's grandfather sat under a willow tree by the stream watching the busy school children. “I never dreamt I'd see a day like this!” he thought to himself as he wiped a tear that rolled down his cheek.At the end of the day it was a tired but happy group of children that returned to their homes. The path from Chuskit's home to the school was now ready! Chuskit was going to school for the first time in her life. And that's why she was so excited! Words used in the story that may be new to you:Aba-ley: FatherAma-ley: MotherMeme-ley: GrandfatherAmchi: A local doctor who has been trained in Tibetan medicine.Azhang-ley: Term used with respect for anelderly man.Gonpa: Buddhist monasteryGur-gur tea: Butter tea that is made in a longcylindrical wooden vessel. The tea is churned with butter, salt and milk in this vessel. A low gur-gur noise is produced during churning.Julley: Term used as a greeting: hello, goodbye.

Moru had strong likes and dislikes. When he liked something, he loved it. And when he did not like something, he absolutely hated it.No one could make him do things that he did not want to do and no one could stop him from doing what he wanted to do. Moru liked to climb trees and steal raw mangoes. He would creep along the branch pretending to be a cheetah in a deep dark jungle. He enjoyed catching insects - the blue green bottle fly with the big shiny head, the thin and crisp grasshopper, and the yellow butterfly whose colour came off like powder on his fingers. Moru loved flying kites, the higher the better. He would climb to the tallest terrace to get his kite to soar far above the clouds like a brilliant eagle trying to reach the sun. Moru liked numbers. Number 1 looked thin and lonely; 100 was fat and wealthy. How graceful 9 was, even more so when she stood next to 1 and became 19.Numbers were like an unending staircase. Moru imagined climbing them one by one by one, racing up, sometimes two, sometimes three or four or more steps at a time. When he was tired, he saw himself sliding down the banister with the numbers waving at him.Unlike rice at lunchtime, which often finished before anyone was even half full, unlike friends who had to go home just as soon as the game was starting to be fun, numbers were always there. Unending and infinitely fun, to be juggled, sorted, matched, shared, laid out in a row, thrown away, put together and taken apart. Moru liked going to school because many of his friends went too. He liked getting up in the morning and having somewhere to go. He liked the big playground but he did not like going to class.He did not like the teacher. He felt trapped in the room. The children could not ask questions, they could not move around and they could not speak when they wanted to say things. The teacher was bad-tempered. Moru felt that the teacher did not like the children at all. Maybe he did not even like being a teacher or coming to a school. In any case, children did not like the teacher either. Every morning, the teacher wrote things on the blackboard. In a loud voice, he told the children to copy it down on their slates. Then he would go outside. If the boys could copy his things from the blackboard nicely, the teacher looked at it. If they could not do it, the teacher got angry. When he was angry, he would call the children names and if he got very angry he would hit them hard. One day, the teacher wrote some sums on the board. The sums were easy but they were boring. Moru did not feel like doing them and he did not have a slate. His slate had broken and his mother did not have the money to buy a new one.Instead he counted the hundreds of ants that were climbing the wall. He looked at the tree outside and noticed that the leaves were perfect. Perfect leaves had perfect shadows. In his mind, Moru counted how many broken bricks there were along the school's compound wall. He calculated that if each brick costed five rupees it would take more than one thousand rupees to fill in all the gaps and broken spaces in the wall. “Moru!” scolded the teacher. “Why are you not doing anything?”Moru looked blank. “Where is your slate? Why haven't you brought one to school?” shouted the teacher. Moru could see that the teacher was angry with him. Moru replied, “My old slate broke and I don't have the money to buy a new one.” The teacher was angry and gave Moru a sharp tap with the stick in his hand. Moru continued softly, "Even if I had a slate I won't do the sums because I don't want to." The teacher was furious. He slapped Moru. Moru's cheek burned bright red. Sudden hot tears sprang into his eyes. He stood up and ran out of the room, down the verandah, across the dusty playground, through the broken gate and away. The next morning, Moru's mother woke him up in time for school. But Moru would not get up. He lay on the narrow bed with his eyes tightly shut.Next day it was the same story, and the next day and the next. No one could persuade Moru to go back to school. One week passed and then one month. Moru sat on the wall in front of his house. Sometimes he would disappear into the market for hours. He would try to fly his kite from the terrace but it was no fun because the sky was empty.His mother scolded him, his brother teased him, his grandmother begged him, his uncle bribed him and his friends coaxed him. But nobody could persuade him to return to school. The rains came and school opened after the summer vacation. Everyone thought Moru would go back to school with all the children. “No,” said Moru very firmly. A year passed.Everyone gave up on Moru. Perhaps Moru gave up on himself too. Instead, he began to do other things. He would go to the market and give the vegetable sellers a hard time. He would gang up with other children like him who had left school and tease and taunt the children who were going to school.He would make paper airplanes out of the school notebooks of his friends. He would go up on the terrace and hit unsuspecting people who were passing by with pellets from his sling. One day, the old teacher left. A new young teacher came in his place. That day Moru was sitting on the wall watching the children go to school. No one asked him anymore why he did not go with them. Instead, children avoided him because they were afraid that he would bother them. The teacher was passing by. Moru looked at the teacher. The teacher looked at Moru Neither smiled and neither frowned.The next day, at the same time and the same place, Moru looked down from the wall. The teacher looked up at him and smiled. It was a small smile. Moru jumped from the wall and ran away. A few days later, the teacher was passing by. He was carrying a huge bag. The bag was very heavy. The teacher was having a difficult time. Moru scratched his head. The teacher passed him by slowly.Moru thought and then he ran behind the teacher. Without saying anything, he took hold of one end of the bag. The teacher was relieved and together they were able to get the heavy load to the school quickly. Inside the school , the bag was carefully put on the teacher's table. The teacher opened the bag and let Moru look inside. There were many many books, colourful books of all sizes and shapes. They felt shiny and smelt new.“Can you help me to take them out?” asked the teacher. Moru began bringing out the books. There were books with stories in them, with pictures on the cover. Some were written in large letters. Some books had so much in them that the words had to be squeezed into the pages. Moru felt his excitement rising. He had not touched a book in two years. The next day, Moru waited till school was over and all the children had left. The teacher was alone. Moru went in quietly and stood by the door. The school seemed ghostly when all the noise and laughter and shouting was gone.The teacher looked up and said, “Good you have come. I need your help.” Moru was curious. What kind of help could the teacher need? He had many, many children in his school to help him. In a very matter of fact kind of voice the teacher said, “Can you help me sort out the books?” Moru sat on the floor. The books were all around him. There were so many storybooks.He put the animal ones together. The leopard storybook would feel more comfortable with the elephants and camels. The fairytales could sit with the stories about gods and goddesses. The adventure stories sat on their own. Or maybe they should go with the heroes and famous people? Then came the books with numbers. Moru's eyes and fingers slowed down. The fat numbers danced with the thin ones. Two digits balanced one on top of the other like an unsteady building still waiting for the base to be filled. The multiplication sums looked short and squat and got fatter and fatter at the bottom as the numbers got bigger.Division was just the opposite. You began with a lot and then if you were careful, you worked it down to create a long thin graceful tail. If you were lucky there would be nothing left. One by one all the numbers and their tricks came back to Moru. It was dark and the school had no lights. “You have to go home now, Moru, but you can come back tomorrow,” said the teacher. “But can you come when the children are here please?” Next day, soon after school started, Moru came. The children were surprised to see him and a little scared.By now Moru was famous as a ‘dada' of the neighbourhood. “I have someone to help me now,” said the teacher. He put Moru with the younger children. There were books in which the children were supposed to write.“Please, can you help the children arrange these numbers in ascending and descending order?” The little kids scrambled around Moru; they were amazed that a tough fellow like Moru knew so much. Moru made the children stand in a line - the smallest children at one end and the tallest ones at the other end. He gave them numbers to hold. Now it was easy. Just like with short children and tall children, it is easy to know who to put where, it was the same with the numbers.Every day Moru would come for a little while and every day the teacher would give him a bigger and bigger task to do. Every day he found his love for numbers was getting stronger and every day his excitement and skill was being absorbed by the little children. One month later, Moru's mother was looking for him in the middle of the morning. He was nowhere to be found. She looked on the terrace but he was not there. She looked on the wall where he normally sat dangling his feet, but only his kites were resting there. She looked up on the mango tree, the leaves rustled in the breeze but there was no Moru on the branches. She went to the market but all the vegetable sellers were selling their vegetables without being bothered by the usual gang of boys.Finally, she walked down the lane and happened to look into the window of the school. There was Moru. His head was down, and he was looking carefully into his notebook. There was a frown of concentration on his forehead and a deep look of absorption in his eyes. He was busy solving complicated mathematics problems along with all the other children of his age.The teacher looked out too, and he smiled his soft warm smile at Moru's mother. She smiled back happily. Moru was in school again.This time he was learning more and more. And most importantly, this time he was loving it.

Sister, sister, I wonder...What do you wonder, little brother,What do you wonder?I wonder, I wonder,Where the sun goes at night.Where do you think, little brother,Where do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother,What do you think? I thinkThat maybe, a demon.The terrible black demonOf DarknessEats up the sun each nightFor dinner.See how the blue sky, at sunset,Is stained red with his blood? But the sunThe glorious brave shining golden sunHe fights the Darkness demonAll night, every nightAnd by morning,He's whole again and back to rule.That's where I think the sun goes at night.Into the mouth of a monsterAfter a terrible fight.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Oh yes you are, little brother, oh yes you areAnd maybe you are right, too...But in the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,What do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother, what do you think? I thinkThat maybe, while it is nightHere on earth,It is a glorious day inThe ocean's darkest depths.And the mermaids come dancing outOf their undersea cavesTo frolic with the sharks. We have seen it ourselvesWhen we went to Mumbai last summer.RememberHow the sun lets go of the skyEach evening at duskAnd slides soundlessly into the sea?That's were I think the sun goes at nightTo flood the underwaterWith golden light.I'm clever, aren't I sister? Of course you are, little brother,Of course you areAnd maybe you are right, too...But in the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,What do you think? I think, I think...Tell me, little brother, what do you think?I thinkThat maybe there is no mystery.That maybe the sun is just like Father.He goes home tired each nightAfter a long dayAt work. And his wife, like Mother,Fusses over him, shushes the kids,Covers him with a night-darkblanket of stars,And hopes his snoringwill not keep her awake all night. And every morning, the sunShrugs off his star-blanket,Paints the dawn sky red with his sleepy eyesAnd gets back to work.That's where I think the sun goes at night.Home to bed until it is light.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? I know you are, little brother, I know you are,And maybe you're right, too...But in the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?Come here, little brother,I'll tell you what they said.They said, they said...Tell me, sister, what did they say? They saidThat the earth is like a ballThat the ball goes around the sunSpinning like the red topMother got you from the Saturday market,But slower. And they saidEvery spin of the earthIs as long as a dayAnd a night.I asked about the sun, sister,I asked about the sun.I am coming to that, little brother,Be patient now. They saidWhen our part of the earthThe half where we liveIs turned towards the sunWe have day.And when the other halfIs turned towards the sunAnd oursIs turned awayWe have night. They saidThat's where the sun goes at nightTo bathe the other half in glorious light.Can it be true, sister, can it be true?I can't say, little brother, I can't say.But in all the books that I have readThat is what they said.FIND OUT MORE!Where does the sun go at night?The earth is a sphere that revolves around the sun, along with the seven other planets of the solar system. One revolution of the earth around the sun takes one calendar year.While it is going around the sun, the earth also spins on its own axis. Each ‘spin' takes 24 hours, that is, a day and a night.Whichever part of the earth is facing the sun has day. At the same time, the other half of the earth (the part turned away from the sun) has night. Then the earth slowly spins around and the half that was in darkness (that is, the half that was turned away from the sun) now faces the sun. So this half has day, and the other half, which turned away from the sun has night. So, in reality, the sun does not really go anywhere at night!Try this experiment!To understand how the earth's rotation causes day and night, try this simple exercise.You need:A small rubber ballA big torchSome felt pensA friendWhat to do:Imagine that the rubber ball is the earth. Using the felt pens, draw the map of the world on the rubber ball. Now, imagine that the torch is the sun. Ask your friend to switch on the torch.Place the ball (the earth) directly in the path of the torch beam (sunlight), so that India is facing the sun. Turn the ball around slowly. What do you see? When India is facing the sun, the Americas are in darkness.As India begins to turn away from the sun, Europe and Africa come into the ‘sunlight'. Then, as the ‘earth' continues to turn, the Americas come into the light and India becomes dark.Keep turning the ball till India faces the sun again. This is what happens every time the earth turns around on its axis. During each rotation, India (and every other place on earth) has one day and one night.

One harsh winter, many people in the land were sick. MaMonikazi's cheeks burned. Sweat dripped from her body. Shewanted to hold the icy grass to her face to cool down. Under herblanket she held her belly and sang to the baby inside her: "Bestrong, little one. Winter's not long. Be brave, little one. Togetherwe're strong!"Her stomach growled when the baby's powerful kicks woke her atnight. She ate the leftover meat in the cooking pot, hungry for life.One bright night the moon wasbigger, fatter and pinker than ever.Her breath came fast. The baby wasready. The aunties in the birthingroom rubbed her back and warmedthe water. When Monikazi held herbeautiful daughter in her arms, sheknew she was a special girl, afighter.What a blessing! Her name isNontsikelelo. She will be the motherof all blessings. Nontsikelelo was beautiful andstrong with crinkling black buttoneyes. She loved her older brother,Mcengi. He made her laugh and sothe laughter spread. She loved toeat meat before she had teeth. Herfavourite aunt always kept a littleportion on the side of her plate forNtsiki. Mcengi chased the chickensthat scratched in the garden whereMa Monikazi grew spinach andsquash to feed her family. Ntsiki ranafter him as her legs grew strong.Ma Monikazi had another baby boy, Velaphi, and another,Qudalele. Finally another sister, Nomyaleko. Little Ntsiki foldednapkins and washed the baby clothes. She swept the house andfed the fire. She picked up her baby brother when he cried andtickled him till he laughed.She taught them to sing: "Be strong, little one. Winter is gone. Bebrave, little one. Together we're strong!" Qingqiwe, her grandfather, raisedhorses. His favourite was Shishi, aglossy black mare. As soon as Ntsikiwas old enough, he hoisted her onto the saddle in front of him. Hisstrong arms reached around her. Helaced the reins through her fingers.He taught her to talk softly toShishi, to groom her with a hardbristled brush. When she stroked itsglossy coat, Albertina whispered,"You are the most beautifulcreature. Thank you for letting meride on your back."Her father, Bonilizwe, came home from the mines at Christmas.Ntsiki pulled herself up onto Shishi's broad back. She rode out tomeet him at the bus stop. Ntsiki sat tall and straight. Herknees held firm. She handled the reins with gentle fingers.How proud Bonilizwe was of his daughter. The biggest smile Ntsikihad ever seen covered her father's face. On her sixth birthday she went toschool. "You must choose an Englishname," said the Presbyterianteacher, but Ntsiki liked her ownname. "Why do I need a newname?" she asked. The teacherscowled and read the names aloud:"Adah, Agnes, Albertina, Anna."What did they mean? Ntsiki likedthe long name best.Al-ber-ti-na! The name had rhythm.Al-ber-ti-na! The name had bounce.Albertina was a name you didn'tmess with.When her cousin married a handsome man from a nearby town,Albertina was chosen as an umkhapi. The maid of honour! Weeksbefore the wedding, she stitched her isikhakha, the shorttraditional skirt, and threaded bright beads onto her amatikiti. Hermother gave her the white flag and said, "You have a big job, myblessing."At the bend in the road Albertina waved the flag, then turnedShishi back, leading everybody from miles around to theceremony. People would gossip if she made a mistake, but theguests lined the road. They ululated and sang. They threw downflowers for the horse and the girl. Her mother was often sick andneeded Albertina to look after thehome. In her last year of primaryschool, Albertina was the oldestpupil in the school. She was chosento be the head girl and wore herbadge with pride.Her best friend, Betty, told herabout a competition, saying, "Youmust apply, my clever friend.""What is the prize?" askedAlbertina, growing curious."A scholarship to high school!" said Betty. "You must apply. You'llwin it, for sure."Albertina studied until the candle burned down. She practisedsums. She practised spelling. She sharpened her pencils and gaveher shoes an extra shine. Next morning she passed Shishi in herpaddock. The horse whinnied and stamped the ground. The test began. Albertina's fingersshook. The sums were tricky. Hermouth went dry. Her hand crampedon her pencil but she continued."Well done, Albertina!" said herteacher at the end. The importantofficial arrived and called the toptwo students to the stage. "Welldone to Albertina for full marks," hesaid, "but you are too old. Thescholarship goes to..."Albertina tried not to cry. "That's unfair," shouted Betty, hoppingwith fury. "That wasn't in the rules!" How would Albertina go tohigh school now? She dragged her feet all the way home.The teacher wrote to the newspaper about the unfair decision.Brother Joe at the Catholic Mission station read the story over hisbreakfast. He cracked his boiled egg with an extra flourish. Hepushed the newspaper across the table to Father Bernard. Hedidn't like the story one bit either. Soon enough there was ascholarship for Albertina. Mariazellnear Matatiele was a long way fromXolobe, but the whole villageerupted. Their home girl was off tohigh school. She would make themproud. They threw a party like noother. The women brewed thesorghum beer and lit the fires. Theyslaughtered chickens and stirred uppots of meat. Albertina smiled tillher face ached.She packed her brown suitcase and polished her shoes again.Before setting off on the bus toMatatiele, she said goodbye to Shishi. Albertina brushed her coatand stroked her wiry mane. She whispered all her questions intothe horse's silky ear: What if I get lost? Will I make new friends?Will I still be clever so far from home? Shishi whinnied andstamped the ground.School days started well before sunrise. The girls washed quicklyin the cold water and swept the dormitories before Mass. The milkyporridge was never quite enough; the stew not as tasty as Aunty'sback home. But Albertina studied hard. She played netball onsunny afternoons.In her school holidays Albertina worked at the mission station. Sherubbed and scrubbed against the zinc washboard. She boiledsheets in copper tubs, then wound them through the wringer. Shehoed and tilled the school garden but missed her family. Who wastelling her brothers and sisters funny stories? Who wiped theireyes when they cried? Who tickled them until they laughed? Albertina loved the nuns who taughther. Could she become a holysister?"But nuns earn no salary," saidFather Bernard. "Perhaps youshould become a nurse? You'll bepaid while you study." Albertina took a train toJohannesburg. She bought a smartwhite uniform, new navy shoes anda shiny red fountain pen. Sickpeople came all day to the hospital.She cleaned their wounds withcareful fingers. She held the oldpeople gently. When the babiescried, she sang: "Be strong, littleone. Winter's not long. Be brave,little one. Together we're strong!Some nights Albertina worked till dawn. She looked out the windowand thought of her family. Were the children hungry? Did they goto school? Who was riding Shishi? She remembered the dark greenspinach. She missed the scent of the earth. There was novegetable garden here. There was nowhere for a horse.Albertina never went to parties. She saved every shilling. On herdays off she learned to play tennis. Whoosh! Plop! She whackedthe ball across the net. Always, she wished for a little more moneyto send home. Walter Sisulu was a brave andclever man who dreamed offreedom for South Africa. His bigsmile captured Albertina's eye.They walked together down the citystreets. Her delicate hand rested onhis arm. Walter wanted Albertina tobe the mother of his children.Bright ribbons decorated the Bantu Men's Social Centre on theirwedding day. Albertina's long-sleeved dress had a swirling train oflace. Many friends blessed their special day. Albertina plantedflowers in her little garden. Within a year, Max was born. Albertinahad become a mother. One day people would call her the motherof the nation.Max had his mother's black button eyes and his father's roundchin. He was the hope for their future. Albertina wanted to fight fora new South Africa, so that Max could be free. When he cried, shesang: "Be strong, little one. Winter's not long. Be brave, little one.Together we're strong!" Police came in the middle of thenight, banging on the door.Albertina scolded the men whomessed up her house. "How rudeyou are!" she said, "trampling mudinside my home."In the morning Albertina's favourite flowers lay crushed beneaththeir footprints. She remembered chasing the chickens from hervegetable garden back in Xolobe and set about replanting hergarden. The earth, she knew, would recover.She would support her husband who kept many secrets and hidfrom the police.She joined the women and worked to organise a march to Pretoria.The women refused to carry a pass. They sang, "Wathint' abafazi;wathint' imbokodo! You strike a woman; you strike a rock!"Many hard years followed after Walter's arrest. He was jailed onRobben Island for 26 years. Albertina, also, was sent to jail manytimes. Often she was scared. Often she was lonely. But even on the darkest nights, shecould see a sliver of moon throughthe window in her cell. She sang thesong that Ma Monikazi sang beforeshe was born: "Be strong, little one.Winter's not long. Be brave, littleone. Together we're strong!"

This story is about an uncle named Sandy,Who likes his camera so much,he always keeps it handy.Let's rewind to when Uncle Sandywas a little boy,Unlike his friends,he never dreamt of a fancy toy. Lost in books that spoke of magical creatures,Even in class, he never listened to his teachers.As time passed by,Uncle Sandy became a wildlife photographer,While his friends became doctors, engineersand dance choreographers. Uncle Sandy didn't want to work in big offices,He wanted to take pictures of snakes,crocodiles and tortoises.So he decided to leavehis family and friends behind,And took off to the jungles with freedom in mind.On his first expedition to the Western Ghats,He had his first encounter with a mysterious cat.Uncle Sandy has been on its trail ever since,Hoping to click a picture of it, for evidence. So he decided to revisit the Western Ghats,Through its spiraling path in search of the cat.The cat in the ghat!The plan was to speak to animals along the way,To get clues about this catwhose colour he knew was grey. He began his journeyat the foothills of the Ghats,With the summer sun so hot,Uncle Sandy needed a hat.“Let's look for waterholes,” he said to himself,He knew that's where the animals would tread. And guess who he got to meet,The top cat himself, Mr. Tiger to greet.“Oh mighty tiger,” he said, “would you haveseen a cat?It is tall, swift and the colour of my hat.”The tiger didn't have much to say,He roared and looked the other way. Phew! That was close, he thought,Just as he was drenched by giant rain drops.Along with the shower came aswarm of termites,Who were sadly eaten by ants, at first sight. Rains in the Western Ghatscome down as waterfalls,Waterfalls become rivers andthat's how there's water for all.So, if we need water to drink,Protecting the Western Ghats is the link. What Uncle Sandy saw next filled him with glee,A family of elephants bathing in a pond, yippee!They were making the mostof the pre-monsoon showers,Some were kicking grass,others showing off their powers.“Excuse me you all,” said Uncle Sandy, waving his hat,“Would you have seen a big grey cat?” “No, no, no,” they all went in chorus,“We haven't seen him around here, we promise.”Uncle Sandy found himself in the rainforest soon,“The second level of the Western Ghats,”he crooned.“Bark!” came a reply through the forest dense.“Oh that's a Barking Deer I hear, it means no offence.” Up in the trees chomping through a jackfruit,He saw a lion-faced monkey, brute.A Lion-tailed Macaque is what it is, he knew,He'd looked through an encyclopedia of animals, woohoo!“Help me find a grey cat, will you?” said Uncle Sandy.“Okay,” said the feasting monkey. “Walk straight through the tall green treesTill you find one with a giant hive of bees.”“Under that tree lives a frog so rareIt lives underground, hiding from thesun's glare.”“He's a clever frog I'm told,Knows the whole jungle inside out and two-fold.”Uncle Sandy was so eager to look for the froggyHe left without saying thank you to the monkey. Left, right, left, right, Uncle Sandy marched,Walking through a row of trees that were arched.Then he saw a tree very tallWith a big beehive that was just about to fall. “Ribbit ribbit,” said a frog,But Uncle Sandy could not see it through the fog.“Oh you're the manwho comes in search of a cat,I heard about you from a clever little bat.”Said Uncle Sandy,“Please will you tell me where he is? I'll give you an exotic flower, an Iris.” The frog was purple in colour,He's the only one of his kind in India,Nasika batracus.The frog told him that he'd meet a tribesman,Who'd know where the cat lived, and would guide him.Uncle Sandy nodded, still in shock,He had just seen the most extraordinary frog. As he went further into the forests so thick,He saw that the trees were getting fewervery quick.“People cut trees,” he said, “to make products very cheap, And the poor animals, they have no place to sleep.”“These jungles are their homes you see,just like our houses back in the city.”Sad and disheartened by the state of affairs,Uncle Sandy decided to say a silent prayer. “Protect these forests, oh dear God, please,Save them so the animals can live in peace.”Saying so he carried on,the high altitude grasslands waiting,And that's where he'd findthe cat from its hiding. The remotest of places in the whole of the Western Ghats,The grasslands so green, Uncle Sandy just sat.Staring at the miracle of creationand the beauty of this place,This, he felt, was really his land of fairy tales.Pat came a tap on his back,He turned to see a face painted black. “Who are you, Sir?” Uncle Sandy questioned“I am a tribesman who lives here unquestioned.”“Oh but sir, will you be as kindTo answer one question I have on my mind?“Where can I find the special cat I'm looking for?I've seen it only once before.” “Are you talking about Pogeyan?” he said. Uncle Sandy wasn't sure what he meant.“The cat that comes and goes as the mist,Are you referring to that elusive cat that exists?”“Yes Sir, that's the one,” Uncle Sandy affirmed.He was so happy he could've drummedand hummed.“Aha!” said the tribesman, pointing to the mountains higher up,“I've seen the cat over there, all of three times in close-up.” Uncle Sandy was feeling extremely blessed.He did a somersault that left the tribesman perplexed.Uncle Sandy was whistling to himself,and climbingWhen he saw two male Nilgiri Tahrs head-butting.Looking at how well they'd adapted tothe terrain,Uncle Sandy wished he too was born on the mountains. Sure he'd find his cat somewhere around here,Uncle Sandy decided to put camera traps all over.Then he slept a good night's sleepUnder an open twinkling sky, on a hillock steep.When he woke up, he ran to his camera traps and checked.Yes, yes, yes, there were images of his cat!!The cat in the ghat! The cat looked the same as it did ten years ago,Uncle Sandy was happy, ho, ho, ho!That's when he felta tiny snake crawling over his feet.He was startled, and realised he'd been dreaming in his sleep.Uncle Sandy prayed his dream would come trueHope he finds his grey cat soon, don't you? The Cat in the Ghat is a whimsical tale of Uncle Sandy going in search of a mysterious cat in the Western Ghats. It has been inspired by the real-life expedition by Sandesh Kadur, a National Geographic Emerging Explorer, wildlife filmmaker and conservation photographer.His goal is to inspire people to protect and appreciate what remains of our wilderness. He is still looking for the Pogeyan!

In a little hilly hamlet of southern India, lived a young girl called Bulbuli. She lived in a hut with her mother. Her house was surrounded by the tallest and greenest trees you would have ever seen. On misty days, the leaves of plants and trees held the biggest dewdrops you could imagine. Bulbuli was as sprightly as her name. She, along with her friends, would prance through the endless forests around her village. She loved to take in deep breaths every morning as the air carried all kinds of different aromas. Sometimes she could smell a sweet, sweet fragrance. At other times it was a strong and sharp scent. Then there were days when all she could smell was a familiar bouquet. Waking up to those refreshing scents was the best way for Bulbuli to begin her day. Then there was Totaram the parrot, who would fly in to the village every morning, perch himself atop a tree facing Bulbuli's hut, and tell her of the entire buzz in the forest. He would also tell her of his flights to different lands and of people who lived there.Bulbuli loved to hear Totaram's tales. She longed to visit these lands and see their different sights. Her heart would race and thump loudly as Totaram would speak but it would always end with a deep sigh. She had to stop dreaming of faraway lands when she had never even been to Senseless Point. Everybody in the village talked of Senseless Point. A few people from the neighbouring villages had been there but no one from her own village. From all the talk around, it seemed like a mysterious place promising an experience of a lifetime.Bulbuli believed that if she ever had the chance to go to Senseless Point, she would return to her hamlet and describe it to everyone. She would tell everyone about this mysterious place. On this particular morning, Bulbuli waited for Totaram's whistle. She fed the hens and collected their eggs. Next she fed the cows and then milked them. All the while she paused from time to time to listen to Totaram's call. Tired of waiting, she left for her school. All the students in her school sat under a huge banyan tree. Bulbuli could hardly pay attention to what was being taught. Her eyes searched for Totaram, who had never missed visiting her ever since the time they became friends.Several days passed and Bulbuli grew more concerned about Totaram. She worried that Totaram might be hurt. She had no way of knowing if he was safe. Bulbuli grew more despondent with each day. After school, she would walk through the forests calling out to Totaram.“Hello! Are you here somewhere Totaram?” she would yell cupping her mouth with her hands. But there was no response. Then one very early morning, even before the sun had risen, she heard a very noisy and distressed bird call. She leapt out of bed and rushed out to look. It was Totaram. “Bulbuli! Wake up! I need to talk to you!”Bulbuli stretched out her arm so that Totaram could perch on it. “Where have you been, Totaram? I have been so worried about you. What is the matter? You seem very upset!”“There is trouble at Senseless Point. War has broken out in the forest.”“Calm down Totaram or you will wake the entire village. What kind of trouble are you talking about? And who is at war?” asked a puzzled Bulbuli.“The jungle... Oops! Sorry, Bulbuli. I do need to stop screaming. The jungles are at war. Senseless Point is not what it used to be. All the animals are frightened. They do not know what is going to happen next. Bulbuli, we have to think of something,” cried Totaram anxiously.“I still do not understand. How can jungles be at war? Why don't you take me to Senseless Point?” said Bulbuli. Totaram grew even more agitated. “Senseless Point is two sunrises and two dusks away. Your small feet will not be able to carry you there.”“My mind is bigger than my feet, Totaram. Don't let the size of my feet fool you. I'm not afraid to do difficult things. Besides, the least I can do is try.”“The journey is long and hard, Bulbuli. I'm not sure...” mused Totaram.“Well, I cannot think of any other way to help. You must take me to Senseless Point,” pleaded Bulbuli. Totaram thought for a long time. Reluctantly, he agreed. “All right then, but we must leave immediately,” he said. Just then Bulbuli realised that she could not leave without telling her mother. Totaram suggested that they stop on the way to get Koyal, his friend to tell her mother first thing in the morning.“Hurry now. We must not lose any time,” Totaram urged.So off they went. Totaram flew just above Bulbuli's head and led the way. Bulbuli walked and walked for several hours. She was not unused to walking through thickets and tall grass. But then she grew hungry and tired. Totaram could see that she needed to eat and drink.“Just a little longer Bulbuli. There are coconut trees up ahead,” said Totaram. When they reached the coconut plantations, Totaram let out a shrill whistle. “Whoeeeee...”From nowhere swung a frisky monkey. He was so full of beans that Totaram had to chide him.“Calm down, Bandaroo! I have work for you. Stop prancing around.” “Alright Totaram. What is it?” asked Bandaroo.“Pluck a couple of coconuts and toss them below. My friend Bulbuli here is hungry,” informed Totaram. Bandaroo obliged. He threw three green coconuts down. They split open as they crashed to the ground. Bulbuli hungrily reached out for them and scooped out the creamy kernel. She ate quickly when all the while Bandaroo squealed with delight from the tree above.“Thanks Bandaroo. That was filling,” said Bulbuli.“Call me anytime folks. I'm the best thrower in the jungle,” said Bandaroo chirpily. Totaram and Bulbuli carried on with their journey. After several hours, Bulbuli grew weary and exhausted. However, she was not going to give up. She had an opportunity of a lifetime here. A visit to Senseless Point for people around her village was like a pilgrimage.Each time that she felt fatigued, Bulbuli tried to picture Senseless Point in her mind. She imagined a beautiful place that could fill people's hearts with happiness. That scene in her mind was enough to make her forget how footsore she was. The first dusk of their journey set in. ‘Another day to go,' thought Bulbuli. Bulbuli rested under a tree while Totaram found a comfortable spot on a branch above. Soon it was dawn.Bulbuli was awakened by the chattering of what seemed like a million birds in the jungle. Bulbuli took several big breaths and stretched her arms out to wake up her body. The morning felt different. She could smell all the familiar scents that she used to every morning, but somehow, they were stronger and more refreshing. “Totaram! Can you smell the freshness in the air? I love it!” she told the parrot. “You have all day to take your whiffs. Let us get moving,” ordered Totaram. Totaram and she talked little the next day. He could see that Bulbuli was tired, hungry and thirsty.Totaram flew down to perch on her shoulder. “There is a stream nearby. We will rest there for a while.”In a little while, Bulbuli heard the sound of rushing water. In no time they arrived at the stream. Theclear water glistened in the sunlight. The water seemed to be racing with itself to get somewhere. It was abeautiful sight.Bulbuli leaned over and cupped the water in her hands and drank all that she could. She splashed water on her face and refreshed herself. Just as she was done, Totaram landed on her shoulder once again and nudged her to stretch out her palms. He then dropped red, delicious berries in them. “Oh Totaram! You are the nicest friend I know. Thank you so much,” smiled Bulbuli. “Go ahead and eat them. Berries are my favourite food. I have already eaten too many today!” gushed Totaram. They rested for a while and then set out once again. Bulbuli walked and walked while Totaram flew just above her talking to her all the while.After several hours, Bulbuli sat down. “I need to rest Totaram. I am really very exhausted. Totaram let out a loud whistle. Within minutes, an elephant strolled up to them. Totaram introduced Hathi to Bulbuli and told him of their journey to Senseless Point.“I believe only a human can help the war in the jungle. Animals are running away from what is paradise for us,” said a concerned Hathi. “Will you give Bulbuli a ride, Hathi?” asked Totaram. “Her will is strong but her strength is failing.” “Of course. Climb up, little girl, but I can only take you up to the trail. After that you are on your own. I cannot be away from my group for long,” said Hathi. Bulbuli was relieved. Her small legs needed rest and she was able to get a spectacular view of the jungle from atop Hathi's back.Hathi, like Totaram, had many tales to tell. The day passed easily. At dusk, the trio settled by a cave. Totaram and Hathi gathered dried leaves and straw and made a bed for Bulbuli. As soon as Bulbuli lay down, she dozed off. At the third sunrise, Totaram did not haveto wake Bulbuli.She was up at the crack of dawn. Totaram brought her some purple berries this time, which she ate with delight. The young girl, the parrot and the elephant began the last leg of their journey. Bulbuli was becoming more uncertain of what to expect. First there was the anticipation of Senseless Point. Then there was the uneasiness of the jungles at war.As she was getting closer to her destination, her heart began to fill with thrill and excitement but with a tinge of apprehension. Shortly, Hathi stopped. He said, “It is time for me to say goodbye. I must return to my family. All the animals will be grateful to you if you could help end the war of the jungles. We cannot bear to live anywhere else. These jungles have been our home for generations.”Bulbuli thanked Hathi for carrying her as far as he did.“I hope the jungles hear me out, Hathi. I promise to do my best.” Totaram sat on Bulbuli's shoulder and asked her to slow down. “Look at that trail going downward. That will lead us to Senseless Point,” instructed Totaram.At this point, a strange humming sound enveloped the jungle. As they walked further, the noise grew louder and louder. “Where is that noise coming from?” asked Bulbuli covering her ears.“That is the sound of three jungles at war, and it is only going to get louder as we approach Senseless Point,” hollered Totaram. Bulbuli could barely believe what was going on. Never before had she encountered such a scene. As she climbed down the trail and looked around, she saw nothing out of the ordinary. But the clamour was ear splitting.Totaram pecked at her ear to get her attention. With the shrieks of the jungles, Bulbuli could hardly hear Totaram. With three more steps, Bulbuli found herself amidst a clearing. It was as if all the trees of the jungle had suddenly disappeared. There were hillocks stretching as far as her eyes could see.“This is Senseless Point. This is a place where everything grows wild. Humans hardly ever come here,” said Totaram. Then Totaram began screaming, “A human being is here, a human being!” But in the deafening din of the jungles, his voice went unheard.Bulbuli could not get herself to remove her hands from her ears. She could not understand what the jungles were saying, but by now it was clear that there were three jungles involved. In the distance, just in front of her, she could see green beds. On her right, were hundreds and hundreds of shrubs with magenta flowers. On her left, she could see very tall plants. The sight before her was breathtaking. And the aroma was stunning.Bulbuli's face lit up with wonder. She turned towards each jungle several times over, to take in the splendour. Almost instantly, the noise of the jungles began to die down, as if the jungles had spotted her.That was when Bulbuli took her first deep breath. She could smell the aroma of tea. Then in the next breath, she was drawn to the fragrance on her right. It was a spicy fragrance- something she was familiar with. Unsure, she breathed in some more and said to herself, “Ah! Elaichi!” A gentle breeze pushed her to her left. Her head turned and she smiled when she took in her next deep breath. It was an attractive and pure smell. Instantly, she recognised the plant.Bulbuli joined her hands and bowed with reverence. “You are Tulsi!”Bulbuli was overwhelmed by the fragrances. They smelled like three octaves of the same musical note – Sa, Sa, Sa. Bulbuli felt joyful. She stretched her arms and twirled around with her eyes closed. The fragrances and the musical notes played in her head, over and over again. All her senses were alive. This was a magical moment for her. Never before had she felt so delighted.Just then, the elaichi plant spoke, “Maybe this little girl could punish the tea bushes.”“Maybe. Little girl, can you stop the tea bushes from stealing our fragrance?” asked a Tulsi plant.Bulbuli was stunned to hear the jungles speak to her. Before she could respond, a tea bush spoke up. “Maybe if these two were not around, humans might be able to ap-preciate our aroma.” “Is that what this war is all about, worrying about your smells getting stolen?” asked a puzzled Bulbuli. She smiled to herself. “Do you have any idea what you all smell like from where I stand? I can smell each of you distinctly.”“It really is not our fault. We are not fragrance thieves. Our leaves take on the smell of anything that grows around us. In fact, with tulsi and elaichi around us, we have to work extra hard to keep our identity. It is not as if the tulsi jungle and the elaichi jungle have lost their perfume to me. You just said that you can smell their individual whiff,” said a tea bush.Bulbuli took several deep breaths to calm down. She discovered that every time she took in a collected breath of tea, elaichi and tulsi, it helped her relax. There was something very soothing about the three of them together. “My mother has taught me important things from the Vedas. Do you know what they have to say?” asked Bulbuli. “The sun should be a giver of happiness, the sky should be a giver of happiness, and all trees and plants should be givers of happiness. All these should give us peace of mind. Do you think you are doing that?”The jungles fell silent. They were listening to Bulbuli. Bulbuli had an idea. She whispered something to Totaram. He flew off from her shoulder almost immediately.A tulsi plant spoke. “The elaichi and tulsi grow wild. We have no control over where and how we grow. And neither do we tell the wind which way to blow.”Bulbuli thought for a moment. “In that case, how can you blame the tea? Maybe you ought to blame the wind.” “The wind! Tulsi and Elaichi fight constantly with the wind too. They do not want the wind to take their perfume out of here,” said a tea bush. Bulbuli was aghast. “Is that true?” she asked.Neither of the two guilty jungles replied. Bulbuli sighed deeply. Just then Totaram returned. He carried a few tulsi leaves, some elaichi seeds and tea leaves in his beak and placed them on Bulbuli's palm. Bulbuli gently rubbed them together. She raised her palm to smell them. She let out a loud delighted shriek.The jungles screamed back in unison, “What is the matter, little girl? Are you all right?” Bulbuli laughed with joy. “You can now wave the white flag for peace. I have a bit of all three of you in my hand and together you smell like nothing else in the world. One whiff of all of you together is so relaxing.”Totatram whispered in Bulbuli's ear. She smiled. “Totaram tells me that the animals in the jungles have known just which leaf to eat when they are unwell. Even the birds have eaten your fruit and leaves together to know how quickly you can make them better again. Did you jungles even know that?” asked Bulbuli.“These animals eat your leaves to relieve all kinds of sickness. They even come here to Senseless Point to rejuvenate themselves. Totaram, get me a bunch of tea, elaichi and tulsi. I am going back home to brew a warm cup of tea with tulsi and elaichi for my mother. Celebrate, jungles! The world is going to know how well you taste together. Which means that you have to get on well with each other. Can you do that?” asked Bulbuli. Bulbuli and Totaram giggled. So did the jungles. This time the noise level rose not because of the fighting, but with laughter. Bulbuli was relieved to see the war coming to an end. She realised that the jungles had each been able to feel pride in their uniqueness.Bulbuli asked Totaram to collect bunches of tea, tulsi leaves along with elaichi seeds. “Jungles, I am now going to return to my village with the most exquisite and refreshing tea, one with tulsi and elaichi. And I promise to return with people from my village to introduce them to Senseless Point. The most refreshing place on earth!”That is how tulsi and elaichi flavoured tea was discovered. Have you tried it yet?

The royal orchard looked lush after the rains. The earth was soft and wet and had a delightful fragrance. The trees looked like they had been washed and each leaf looked like it had been polished by hand.The head gardener was getting a new tree planted. He directed his helpers to a pit that had been prepared just that morning. The young tree was carefully lowered. All along, the head gardener kept saying, “I will lose my job and all of you will rot in the darkest chambers of the palace if this tree does not survive. And if it blooms, you won't have to work another day in your life. You will all be handsomely rewarded.”As an offering to Mother Earth, he threw in sugar cane juice, before the roots of the young tree were patted with mud. Just then the King and his young prince stepped into the orchard.This was to be the first walk among the trees for the prince with his father. “Father, what is this sapling?” asked the prince, pointing to a plant. “It is a pomegranate sapling. The tree that will have the most beautiful flowers...”The prince watched his father admiring the trees around them with love and care. PomegranateIt is hard to say which is more beautiful - a pomegranate fruit or the brilliant red flower. The fruit has a deep red colour and is the size of a cricket ball.It has leathery skin and when it is opened, you find many red, juicy seeds, which look as though they are made of glass. Each seed has a woody, crunchy centre. Some fruits are yellowish pink and have pink seeds. These are also very tasty.The pomegranate tree grows to about three metres. The long and narrow leaves are shiny and the branches have a few thorns. In the spring, the tree is covered with scarlet flowers. The petals look as though they are made of crinkly paper.These flowers have no smell. The petals grow out of a red part called the calyx. After the petals fall, the calyx begins to grow bigger and bigger till it becomes a pomegranate with a crown. Pomegranate juice is very tasty and is taken to bring down fever. Pomegranates contain plenty of natural sugars and vitamin C. The dried seeds are made into sour anardana, which is a spice used to flavour pakoras and aloo paranthas. The rind of the pomegranate is dried and powdered and taken to cure an upset stomach.Pomegranates are called anar in Hindi. One of the most renowned dancers in the court of Mughal emperor Akbar was called Anarkali — bud of the anar — because she was so beautiful.Some pomegranates are called kandhari, as once they were only grown in a place called Kandahar, in Afghanistan. JackfruitThe jackfruit grows on a tall tree with a thick foliage of dark green leaves. The jackfruit does not grow just on the branches like other fruit, but also on the tree trunk.Another amazing fact is that when the jackfruit tree turns very old, the fruit can also grow on those roots which come outabove the ground.The large, oblong fruits can sometimes weigh as much as 40 kilograms. Their rough skins are covered with conical studs. When jackfruits are young they are green and eaten as a vegetable, but when they are ripe and turn yellowish-brown they are eaten as a fruit. The ripe fruit has a strong characteristic smell and not everyone likes it. The seeds of the jackfruit are also very tasty. They can be roasted and eaten. Fried jackfruit makes delicious chips. When sugared and dried, the fruits make excellent candy. The leaves are warmed and used to foment wounds and stop swellings.The wood of this tree is not attacked by termites. An orange dye is made by boiling the wood. This is used to colour the robes of Buddhist monks. When two sticks of the jackfruit tree are rubbed together, fire can be produced.The tree is very ancient and it is mentioned in Sanskrit texts as the panas. It is the largest tree-borne fruit in the world. This tree has its origin in India. The fruit is very nutritious, as it has carbohydrates, proteins, some fats and vitamins. PapayaWhen we cut open a golden orange papaya, we find a lot of shiny, black seeds that look like whole black pepper. Can you imagine how many trees can grow from each fruit — at least 500! But not all the trees that grow from the seeds will give us fruit. This is because some trees have flowers that are male and other trees have flowers that are female.When we plant many papaya trees together, it ensures that cross-pollination takes place and the ‘female' trees bear fruit. The fragrance of papaya flowers is very sweet. Insects and birds help in pollination and little papaya fruits begin to form. The tree has big leaves that are thickly veined. When they dry, they fall off leaving a scar on the trunk. The wood of the trunk is not hard. It is soft inside, rather like the stem of a big plant.Papayas are very nutritious, with lots of vitamin C and A, and calcium too. Raw papayas are used as a tasty vegetable. Papayas have an enzyme called papain, which is useful for digestion. Raw papaya helps in tenderizing meat.Ripe papaya pulp is good for skin problems and is used to get rid of spots and blemishes on the skin. Papayas came from Mexico and Central America. But they are seen almost everywhere in India! BananaSome banana trees are as tall as a single-storeyed house while others are only as tall as a person. The leaves are sometimes one-and-a-half metres long and over half a metre broad, with a thick rib running through the centre.The new leaves have a fresh green colour but as they grow older, they become darker and get torn at the edges. The trunk of the banana has no bark. It is actually a thick stem made of the stems of the leaves that are tightly wound around each other.The flowers of the banana tree grow inside a reddish cone. Hundreds of tiny white flowers can be found inside each cone. As many as a hundred bananas can grow together in a bunch. When the bananas are almost ripe, the bunch is cut down and left to ripen. Raw bananas are eaten as a vegetable. Delicious chips can be made from raw bananas. Banana flowers are used to make tasty curries. Monkeys and elephants love bananas. An elephant can eat many bunches by himself!Bananas are nutritious as they have many vitamins such as A, B and C, as well as calcium, which is needed for our bones to grow strong.It is also a good source of minerals like potassium and magnesium. Bananas are considered auspicious by Hindus and are offered during a puja. When there is a wedding or a puja, the trees or bunches of bananas are used to decorate both sides of the entrance to the house. The leaves make wonderful, natural plates. The leaves are also used to make cups. JamunThe jamun tree is tall and graceful, with a grey-brown bark and deep green, long oval pointed leaves. The trees always have dense foliage. They grow about 12 metres tall. Children love to play beneath their deep shade. The bark is smooth but the wood is weak so the trees are not very safe to climb.From March to May, the tree is full of bunches of tiny creamy flowers, which bees and other insects love for their nectar. We all wait for the rains, when the jamun gives delicious, deep purple fruit with a stone in the centre. The ripe fruit is sweet-sour and good to eat. Ask any parrot or squirrel, or even fruit bats that come to eat the juicy berries at night!Jamun trees often grow wild in forests and according to Hindu legend, Krishna loved to eat the fruit when he grazed his cows. The dark purple colour of the fruit is supposed to be the same colour as Krishna's complexion. Lord Ganesh is supposed to love this fruit too. The tree is also sacred to Shiva and Vishnu. This tree is originally from India. The name jamun, comes from the word Jambu Dweep, as India was once known in the olden days, since it was supposed to be full of jamun trees!Ripe jamuns are very tasty when they are eaten with rock salt.In the forests when wild jamuns fall from the tree they are eaten by bears, deer, monkeys and other small animals.The bark and seeds of the jamun are dried and powdered and then used as a medicine for diabetes. The fruit is rich in fruit sugar, iron and vitamin C. GuavaGuavas are really delicious! Ripe yellow ones are tasty, but the crunchy green ones are mouth-watering too, especially when sprinkled with salt and masala.Have you seen a guava tree? It is not very tall, possibly as tall as a single storeyed house. The trunk is slender with a grey-ochre bark that peels off in strips. The leaves are oval and rough to touch. The tree is full of beautiful, five-petalled white flowers, towards the end of winter and then again at the time of the rains.When these flowers fall, small green guavas begin to appear. At first, the fruit is green and hard. As it ripens, it becomes softer and the colour becomes a creamy gold.The flesh is white and in the centre, there are lots of woody seeds. Some guavas have pink flesh. These are also very tasty. Another type of guava is deep red on the outside. Guavas that ripen in the winter are always tastier than those found during the rest of the year. In India, Allahabadi guavas are famous for their taste.There are so many guava trees in India that it is hard to believe that they came from Brazil in South America. Sailors travelling from those parts, brought the seeds of guavas with them.Parrots and monkeys love guavas. It is believed that a guava pecked by a parrot will be sweet!Guavas are very good for us as they are full of vitamin A and C. The tree has other uses too. The leaves are mashed and used to relieve toothache. The bark is used to make a dye for colouring silk. CoconutGraceful coconut trees grow in sandy soil, in the tropics where the weather is warm and wet. Coastal areas have the largest number of coconut trees. This tall tree has a slim trunk, which bends with the strong breeze that blows in coastal areas. Because it bends, it does not break.The water inside green coconuts is very tasty and nutritious. It has sugar, protein, amino acids, and minerals like calcium, iron and copper, and vitamins. As the fruit becomes ripe, it turns brown and hard and the water inside becomes sweeter, until it is quite dry. Coconut oil is extracted from the flesh when the nut turns brown and woody.Each coconut leaf has a long central rib with smaller hard leaves growing on either side. Waving in the breeze, coconut leaves resemble the feathers of some giant bird. The leaves are plaited to make baskets and mats, and also to make thatched roofs. The hollowed out trunk is used as boats. It is amazing that even the husk, that encloses the shell of the coconut, is used for making ropes, mats, brushes and to stuff mattresses.All over the world, the coconut tree is prized for its different uses. Sometimes it is known as the tree of heaven. It is supposed to have come from the Melanesian islands in the Pacific Ocean.If you had no other tree but the coconut, you could build a house, have a meal and a cool drink, make clothes from leaves, make a broom and even have a soft mattress to sleep on! Can you think of any other uses?The coconut is a symbol of prosperity. “Father, why are these trees so special to you?” asked the prince. “Son, these trees grow in different parts of India and during my travels to different states, I have chosen the most delicious fruit trees of those regions. They all need different kinds of climate to survive. But, here, our soil is so rich and our gardeners so dedicated, that they have been able to raise all these trees. Look at this one. It is a ber tree.” BerSometimes on the way to school or walking around the edges of fields, we come across ber bushes. They are thorny, but the little red fruit with a stone in the centre is worth plucking because it is very tasty.There are many different types of bers, some grow on trees with graceful, drooping branches whereas others grow on bushes. Some are round and others have a longish shape, but they all have a wonderful flavour. Ber trees can be about six metres tall and the bushes are only about one metre high. The ber tree and the ber bush are both thorny. The trees have longer thorns and that is why when bers are ripe, people take a long stick with a sharp knife at the end of it, to cut down ripe bers. Sometimes, if the branch is shaken hard, the ripe fruit drops down and can be collected. Ber trees grow in dry places where it does not rain too much. The leaves are eaten by goats, camels and cattle.Silkworms also eat the leaves of the ber. Another very interesting insect called the lac insect lives on the branches of the ber. The insect sucks the juice and secretes a red substance called lac, from which paints, varnishes and dyes are made. OrangeWe all wait for juicy oranges in the beginning of winter. The tangy smell of a peeled orange is unmistakable. It comes from the oil in the rind.The orange is easy to eat because it can be peeled and each section eaten separately. It is also a great thirst quencher on a hot day.Oranges are full of vitamin C, which keeps colds and coughs away. They also have calcium which is good for strong bones. Orange juice is a popular drink and the flavour of oranges is used in many food products.The best oranges in India come from Nagpur. The trees are about six metres tall, and somewhat thorny. The leaves are dark green and glossy. If you crush a leaf between your fingers, it has a strong tangy smell. If you sit near flowering orange trees, the perfume is very soothing. That is why the flowers are dried and then stuffed into pillows for a good beauty sleep.The rind of the orange is dried and mixed with gram flour to make a scrub for the skin. This can be used instead of soap. In the olden days, ladies in China carried oranges in their hands to keep them smelling sweet.It is thought that the orange tree came from the southern parts of China. Some people think that its origin lies in the foothills of the Himalayas. ChikooWhen round, brown chikoos grow on trees, they remind us of soft, brown balls. The skin is a bit fuzzy, and the brownish flesh within is very sweet and has a grainy texture. The chikoo has shiny, long, black seeds inside. The leaves of the tree are longish and glossy. The tree can reach a height of about 10 metres.This tree was brought from South America many years ago where the Aztec Indians called the tree Chicle. They tapped the bark for the rubbery gum that oozes out of it and made an ancient chewing gum from it. This is how the idea of making chewing gum came to people's minds in modern times. The word chikoo comes from chicle.Chikoos grow best in warm and humid places. The best chikoos come from Maharashtra and central India. In some parts of the world, the chikoo is known as the Sapodilla.This fruit has a very high sugar content. It also has a good amount of vitamin C. In some places, the seeds are made into a paste to cure insect bites and stings. Chikoo ice cream is delicious. Have you tried it? TamarindThe tamarind tree grows to a height of over 20 metres. It has a long straight trunk with dark brown bark. The branches are strong and supple and droop downwards. The tiny leaves are of a fresh green colour and form graceful, feathery foliage. They are also sour like the tamarind and are nice to eat.The tamarind has beautiful yellow flowers with thin streaks of red. When the flower dries up, its place is taken by a tamarind pod. The pod is green and gradually turns a light brown as it ripens. It is like suede to touch.When it ripens in winter, it becomes a deep brown and the pulp inside is sour with a hint of sweetness. Tamarind seeds are dark brown and enclosed inside the pulp. Squirrels and birds love to eat ripe tamarind. Children also love raw tamarind dipped in rock salt, though it can give them a sore throat sometimes.Tamarind is used to make delicious curries, pickles, chutneys and tangy jal jeera, which is not only cooling in Summer, but also delicious with gol gappas. Tamarind is very rich in iron and vitamin C. The seeds are dried and powdered and can be used as a flour. Tender tamarind leaves and tamarind flowers are also used in cooking.The tree gives very dense shade in summer. There are many superstitions in India about the tamarind tree. People believe that ghosts live on its branches and that one must not sleep under it at night.If you look closely at the leaves of a tamarind tree at night, you will notice that they fold up. Of course, the truth is that, because the big tree breathes out carbon dioxide, it is not healthy to sleep under it at night. It is thought that many, many years ago, the tree was brought from Africa. It began to grow very well in this country and now it is very hard to believe that it came from another country. “Father, what will this new tree grow up to be?” asked the prince excitedly. The King looked at the young tree and then at his son. “Just as you will be king some day, this young tree will grow to bear the king of fruits — the mango! Wait for some time and you will get to taste a fruit like none other.” MangoWho doesn't love delicious mangoes! They are equally tasty, whether they are ripe and golden or green and sour when they are raw and eaten with a bit of salt. We all wait eagerly for the summer season when the mango fruit ripens. It has been rightly called the king of fruitsin India.There are many types of mangoes. Some are big and yellow and can weigh almost a kilogram; others are tiny, green and juicy and have to be sucked to be really enjoyed.You can throw a whole lot of mangoes in a bucket of ice water and when they are cool, sit under a tree and enjoy them. It is a good practice to wear old clothes and eat mangoes because their juice can ruin clothes.In India, we have more than a thousand different varieties of mangoes. Wild mango trees originally grew in the Himalayan foothills and spread from there to the rest of the world. The mango tree is about 15 metres tall. Old trees can sometimes grow up to 30 metres. Some mango trees in orchards are just about three metres tall. The trunk is a dark brown and the long leaves are pointed at the tips. The crushed leaves have a sharp scent. The mango flowers at the end of the cold weather. The bunches of the little pale yellow flowers have a sweet smell. Honey bees gather nectar from them.Mango leaves are strung on a thread and hung over a doorway, when there is a wedding or any other ceremonial celebration in Hindu households. The motif of a mango can also be found in Indian textiles, saris and various Indian handicrafts. Mango leaves, seeds and flowers are all used for medicine. Mango has lots of vitamin C, which helps us to fight off colds, coughs and gives us healthy gums. Vitamins A and B are also found in this fruit.After admiring the trees for a while the King and his son headed back to the palace. The prince turned back. He smiled and thought to himself, 'Yes, I like our orchard and all its trees, just like father. I will soon grow to be a king and you will too,' and waved to the young swaying mango tree. Green GyanTrees are the tallest of all plants in the world and they were present on the earth much before human beings appeared.Trees grow on mountains, along seashores and in hot deserts. We find them growing along the edges of roads, in fields and in our homes and gardens. All plants and trees are necessary for life on earth as they provide oxygen that living beings need to survive.Most plants have a green colouring matter in their leaves called chlorophyll. During the day, when sunlight falls on the leaves, the leaves prepare food for the plants by a process called photosynthesis. They do this with the help of the water absorbed by the roots, the carbon dioxide from the air that enters the leaves through tiny pores on the surface of the leaf, and sunlight. Oxygen is let out into the air as a result of photosynthesis. There are thousands of different types of trees but the ones that give us delicious fruit are the best of them all. All trees bear fruit. However, all fruits are not edible. Some may even be poisonous!But trees are our special friends. They give us shade on a hot day; they provide us with food, timber and medicines. When trees grow over a large area, they form forests. Forests affect the climate of a place, prevent soil erosion and provide a habitat for a variety of animals.We must look after trees and plant trees if we can, so that we have a healthy environment.

Sister, sister I wonder...What do you wonder, little brother,What do you wonder?I wonder, I wonder,Where thunder comes from.Where do you think, little brother,Where do you think?I think, I thinkTell me, little brother,What do you think? I thinkThat there is a great big KumbhakarnaSleeping in the skyAnd when the silver ropes of rainLash him, and chase his sleep away,He wakes up.Sparks fly out of his eyes like lightningHe stamps his big ugly feetTakes a long deep breathAnd ROARS with rage. (Let me tell you If I had thrown a tantrum like that Mother would have spanked me.Hard.)I think that'sWhere the thunder comes fromFrom the fury of aKumbhakarna in the skyWho likes to stay asleep, and dry.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Oh yes you are, little brother, oh yes you are.And maybe you're right, too...But in the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,What do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother, What do you think? I thinkThere is a gang of crazy bikersUp there in the skyIn their black leather jacketsAnd steel-studded bootsAnd dark glasses that hide their eyesJust like in the movies.And what they like to do bestIs to race each other in the pouring rain. I thinkWhen they mount their bikes andKICK them to lifeSteel strikes steelThere's your lightning!Then, when they do what bikers doRev up their engines, and rrrev them,and rrrev themThere's your thunder! I think that's where the thunder comes fromNot from a demon,not from a plane,But from a fleet of bikes that race in the rain.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? I know you are, little brother, I know you areAnd maybe you're right, too...But in all the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,What do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother, What do you think? I thinkThat when it rainsThe childrenOf the old woman in the skyAre absolutely NOT allowedTo play outside (for they may catch a cold!).Cooped up indoorsThey all get a little restless,and VERY cranky. I think the old woman opens her trunkPulls out a game of chaupadAnd a pair of giant dice.The children clap their hands in excitementRoll the giant diceAnd forget they were ever bored.I think that's where the thunder comes fromFrom the dance of a pair of diceAs they make their way across the skies.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Of course you are, little brother,And maybe you're right, too...But in all the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?Come here, little brother,I'll tell you what they said.They said, they said...Tell me sister, what did they say? They saidThat thunder always comes after lightning.But you know that, don't you?And thatIt is the lightningThat makes the thunder. The lightning is like ELEC-TRI-CITYThe same magic ELEC-TRI-CITYThat runs the pumpAnd floods the house with lightAnd fills the TV with Sachin and SauravAt the flip of a switch.But I asked about thunder, sister,I asked about thunder.Have patience, little brother,Have patience now. They said that lightning is very hotJust like electricity.And when it slices through the airAnd stabs the earthIt makes the air through which it comesVery Very Very hot.They saidThe hot air EXPANDSAnd explodes BOOOOOOM!Like a monster Diwali bomb. And some little childrenBury their facesIn their mothers' sarees.But brave little boys like youHear the air go BOOOOOOM!Turn around quickly.Can it be true, sister, can it be true?I can't say, little brother, I can't say.But in all the books that I have readThat is what they said.FIND OUT MORE!Where does thunder come from?Everything around us is made up of tiny particles called atoms. Each atom has a nucleus at the centre, which is filled with particles called neutrons and positively charged particles called protons. Even tinier particles (negatively charged) called electrons go around the nucleus like the planets go around the sun.In a thundercloud, air carries bits of ice and water droplets upwards. When they rub against each other, the atoms in them become ions (that is, they become charged positively or negatively). The positive ions are lighter and move upwards, while the heavier negative ions move downwards to the bottom of the cloud.The negative ions at the bottom of the cloud attract the positive ions on the earth. When they start flowing towards each other, electricity is created, which becomes a huge, powerful flash of lightning.The lightning makes the air around it very, very hot almost as hot as the sun! This hot air expands very quickly, causing a big explosion. It then begins to contract equally quickly once the lightning flash has passed. This explosion of air is what causes the sound waves that we call thunder.Try this experiment!To understand how particles with opposite charges attract each other, let's make a magic ‘magnetic balloon'!You need:A balloonA piece of wool or silkA wallWhat to do:1. Blow up the balloon.2. Rub it briskly with the piece of wool or silk.3. Hold it against the wall and watch it ‘stick' there like a magnet to iron!Why does this happen?When you rub the balloon with the wool or silk, electrons get transferred between the two. The atoms in the balloon take in more electrons, so the balloon becomes negatively charged. When you hold it against the wall, the negative ions in the balloon get attracted to the positive ions in the wall, causing the balloon to stick to the wall!

Sister, sister, I wonder...What do you wonder, little brother,What do you wonder?I wonder, I wonder, why the sky is so blue.What do you think, little brother,What do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother,what do you think? I thinkThat maybe the skyIs really an upside-down seaWith cloud-boats bobbing gently along.That an E-NOR-MOUS sheetOf clear plastic skinIs stretched across that upside-down seaTo keep it in. And sometimes the plastic tears a littleHere or thereLike plastic willAnd then it rains.I think that is why the sky is blueBecause it is a seaAnd seas are blue.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Oh yes you are, little brother, oh yes you areAnd maybe you are right, too...But in the books I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,what did they say?What do you think, little brother,what do you think?I think, I think,Tell me, little brother, what do you think? I thinkThat maybe the old womanWho lives in the skyWashes her ENORMOUS blue saree each nightAnd spreads it out to dry in the sunEach morning. She is careful, the old womanShe pins the saree down with cloud-stonesSo that the naughty windCannot carry it away.I think that is why the sky is blueBecause the old woman in the skySpreads her saree out to dry.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Of course you are, little brother,And maybe you are right, too...But in the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,what do you think?I think, I think... Tell me, little brother,What do you think? I thinkThat maybe, one long-ago HoliThe shops ran out of every colour BUT blue.And I think, that day,Such an ENORMOUS cloud of blue dust roseFrom laughing blue people everywhere,That it reached up, up, up all the wayTo the sky. And the old woman, the one that lives up there,She scrubs the sky each dayWith cloud-cottonwool,To get the stain out of the way.I think that's why the sky is blueBecause of a stubborn stainThat drives the old woman insane.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Oh yes, you are, little brother, oh yes you areAnd maybe you are right, too...But in the books I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,What do you think?They said, they said...Tell me, sister, what did they say? They saidThat there is a thick blanket of airAround our blue and green earthAnd that blanket is wovenOf millions of little things they callMo-le-cules. They saidThe air blanket is calledAt-mos-phere.But why is the sky so blue, sister,Why is the sky so blue?Be patient, little brother, be patient now. They saidThe golden light from the glorious sunIs not golden at allBut white!And what a white!A rainbow-coloured white! A violet-indigo-blue-green-yellow-orange-red white.They saidIt is the RAINBOW lightThat comes to usThrough the At-mos-phere. But the sky is blue, sister, not violet or yellow or green!Listen, little brother, you'll see what I mean.Now the Mo-le-cules in the At-mos-phereWell, they are not very fair. They let the red and the yellow and the orange light pass throughMostlyAnd the green tooBut the blue!Oh, they give the blue a hard time!What do they do to the blue, sister,What do they do?Tell me, sister, what do they do? Well, when the sunlight strikes thoseMillions and millions of MO-le-culesThey BOUNCE all that blue lightThe blue, blue light'sBack where it came from;And the poor blue lightShatters, scattersAll over, ALL OVER, the skyAnd turns it blue. Can it be true, sister, can it be true?I can't say, little brother, I can't say.But in all the books that I have readThat is what they said.FIND OUT MORE!Why is the sky blue?Sunlight is made up of all the colors of the rainbow: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet. The gas molecules in the atmosphere interact with the sunlight before it reaches our eyes.Each ‘colour' of light is actually a different wavelength of electromagnetic radiation. Different wavelengths not only make up different colours, they also behave differently. Each of the different wavelengths in sunlight (or, in other words, each of the colours that sunlight is made up of) interacts differently with the molecules in the atmosphere.When sunlight strikes the molecules, they scatter the blue light (which has a shorter wavelength) more than they do the red, orange, yellow and green lights (which have longer wavelengths). Since the blue portion is scattered more, the sky appears blue.Try this experiment!Why does the sky appear orange and red at dawn and dusk?Let's try this exercise to find out.You need:A clear glass full of waterA little milkA torchWhat to do:Shine the torch on the glass of water. Can you see the light in the water? Hardly. Now add a few drops of milk into the water. Then shine the torch again on the glass. This time, you will notice that the light is more visible. Add a few more drops of milk. Now you will notice that the light in the glass is distinctly blue.Why does this happen?When you add the first few drops of milk tothe water, the number of molecules in thewater increases. The fat and protein molecules in the milk scatter the light so that we can see it. When you increase the number of molecules by adding more milk, the light is scattered more, especially the blue light, which has a shorter wavelength.

Sister, sister, I wonder...What do you wonder, little brother,What do you wonder?I wonder, I wonder, why things don't fall up.What do you think, little brother,What do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother, what do you think? I thinkThat long ago, things did fall upThat the sky was full of toffee wrappersAnd ice cream sticksThat stars slipped on banana peelsThat sometimes, the moon cut her dainty feetOn bits of broken glassOr caught her trailing silver skirtsOn a rusty nail. I thinkThe old woman who lives in the skyGot so tired of cleaning the messThat she put a curse on the earth;And things have fallen down ever since.I think that's why things don't fall upBecause the old woman in the skyWas fed up of living in a smelly pigsty.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Oh yes, you are, little brother,And maybe you're right, too...But in the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,What do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother, what do you think? I thinkThat long ago, things did fall upAnd drove Mother mad.Father's keys,The screw of her nose-stud,The coins you were tossing from hand to hand (even though you knew Mother would scold if she knew)On your way back from the market;All fell up and disappeared. Mother prayed to all her Gods.One of them took pity on her,And things fell down and vanished no more.Mother was happy (for a while)Now she complains about the mess on the floor.I think that's why things don't fall upAll thanks to a woman's pleasFor fewer lost coins, and screws, and keys.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? I know you are, little brother,And maybe you're right, too...But in the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,What do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother, what do you think? I thinkThere is a big greedy demon inside the earthAll day he waits, his mouth a gaping holeSucking in mighty lungfuls of air...And nothing can fall upAs long as he keeps sucking in —Everything heads towards that greedy hole. I thinkMany things go right in.My marbles, your hairclips,The yummy laddoos Mother makesWhich I don't eat and you don't eatBut which disappear somehow.I think that is why things don't fall upBecause they hurtle earthwards to feedAn underground demon's greed.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Of course you are, little brother,Of course you areAnd maybe you're right, too...But in all the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say? Come here, little brother,I'll tell you what they said.They said, they said...Tell me what they said, sister,Tell me what they said. They saidThat everything, just everythingIn the great big universePulls everything, just everything elseIn the great big universeTowards itself. They saidThat BIG things can pull much harderAt small thingsThan small things can pullAt BIG things.But why don't things fall up, sister,Why don't things fall up?Be patient, little brother, be patient now. They saidThe earth, our home,Is a very BIG thingAnd all of us,and everything else on earth—Our aeroplanes, our blue whales,even our oceans—Are very small things. And that's whyThe earth pulls us towards itselfMUCH, MUCH harderThan we can pull the earthTowards us.SO HARDThat we, or our keys, or our screws,or our coins,Cannot escape, float away, disappear,Or fall up. This GREAT force, this GIGANTIC forceWith which the earth pulls usAll of us,Even the penguins at the edge of the earth,Towards itselfIs called GRA-VI-TY.Can it be true, sister, can it be true?I can't say, little brother, I can't say.But in all the books that I have readThat is what they said.FIND OUT MORE!Why don't things fall up?About 350 years ago, a famous English scientist called Isaac Newton was relaxing under an apple tree when an apple fell and hit him SMACK! on the head. Rubbing his sore head, Newton wondered why things never fell up. Finally, he came up with the theory that the earth was like a giant magnet, which attracted everything around it with great force. He called this invisible force ‘gravity'.He also concluded that everything in the universe attracts everything else. Bigger objects attract each other with greater force than smaller ones. Also, as the distance between two objects increases, the force of attraction between them decreases.Gravity, however, does not just make apples fall down from trees. It also keeps the moon in orbit around the earth and all the planets in orbit around the sun. The force of the earth's gravity keeps the moon from flying away into space.But why doesn't the moon fall towards the earth? Because the moon has its own gravity, with which it attracts the earth. It is because the earth's gravity is greater, that the moon goes around the earth. If the moon's was greater, the earth would have gone around the moon instead!Try this experiment!You need:A few rubber bandsA small rubber ballA length of stringWhat to do:Put the rubber bands around the ball in such a way that they grip it tightly. Tie the string to one of the rubber bands around the ball. Stand somewhere where there is plenty of room and swing the ball around your head. If you swing it hard enough, the ball will go around your head in a horizontal circle. Now let go of the string. What happens? The ball flies away in a straight line.Why does this happen?Because there is a tension force in the string, which keeps the ball turning around your head. When you let go of the string, the tension force disappears and the ball goes flying.Now imagine the ball is the moon and you are the earth. The earth's gravity is like the tension force in the string! If this tension force did not exist, the moon would fly away into space!

In a gulmohar tree along the wheat fields in Punjab, Munni the sparrow, sat by her nest. She watched over her three little eggs, waiting for them to hatch.Munni looked around happily at the bright red flowers, before giving a startled chirp as she saw a flash of black. It was the village bully, Kaka, the crow. "Move over Munni, for I have come to eat your eggs," he cawed. Now Munni was a clever little sparrow and she quickly chirped back, "Who can refuse you, Kaka? But I have one request. Before eating my eggs, could you please wash your beak, since it is looking very dirty?" Kaka did not like the idea of not looking his very best. He quickly flew over to the stream and was about to wash his beak in the water, when the stream cried out, “Kaka! Wait! If you dip your beak into me, all my water will become dirty. Go get a cup, fill it with water, and wash your beak in that.” Hearing this, Kaka went to the potter in the village, and cawed to him,“Oh potter dear,This is Kaka here.A cup you makeFor me to fillWith water to washMy dirty billSo I can eat the eggsAnd loudly cawTo let everyoneHear me and knowThat I am the most handsome crow.”“I will gladly give you a cup, but I need mud to make one for you,” said the potter. So Kaka flew over to the nearby field and said to it,“Oh field dear,This is Kaka here.Some mud I'll takeFor the potter to makeA cup to fillWith water to washMy dirty billSo I can eat the eggsAnd loudly cawTo let everyoneHear me and knowThat I am the most handsome crow.”“I am all dry and baked hard, for the monsoon rains are yet to start. Get something sharp to dig me up,” replied the field. Off Kaka went to the nearby jungle where he saw a deer with sharp horns. He called out to it,“My friend, oh deer,This is Kaka here.Your horn may I takeTo dig some mudFor the potter to makeA cup for me to fillWith water to washMy dirty billSo I can eat the eggsAnd loudly cawTo let everyoneHear me and knowThat I am the most handsome crow?”“Oh, you very clever crow, how can you take my horn while I am still alive?” Kaka, terribly hungry, flew around in a flurry till he came across... ...a pair of dogs.“Oh dogs dear,This is Kaka here.I need your help, I fear,To kill the deerWhose horn I shall takeTo dig some mudFor the potter to makeA cup for me to fillWith water to washMy dirty billSo I can eat the eggsAnd loudly cawTo let everyoneHear me and knowThat I am the most handsome crow.”“That is a lot of work in this heat,” grumbled one of the dogs. “We need to be strong to kill the deer. Go get some milk for us to drink.” Back to the village flew Kaka and went to the buffalo munching on some straw.“Oh buffalo dear,This is Kaka here.Could I take your milkTo the dogs to feedWhose help I needTo kill the deerWhose horn I shall takeTo dig some mudFor the potter to makeA cup for me to fillWith water to washMy dirty billSo I can eat the eggsAnd loudly cawTo let everyoneHear me and knowThat I am the most handsome crow?”“If I could get some lovely juicy grass to eat instead of this dry hay, I would certainly give you milk,” mooed back the buffalo. On hearing this, Kaka swooped over to the only grassy field around and said to it,“Oh grass dear,This is Kaka here.Please come with meFor the buffalo is hungryAnd I need her milkFor the dogs to feedWhose help I needTo kill the deerWhose horn I shall takeTo dig some mudFor the potter to makeA cup for me to fillWith water to washMy dirty billSo I can eat the eggsAnd loudly cawTo let everyoneHear me and knowThat I am the most handsome crow.” “And how do you plan to cut me?” whispered the grass. “Go get a sickle from the blacksmith and then I can come with you.” Kaka, really hungry now, went to the blacksmith and said to him,“Oh blacksmith dear,This is Kaka here.Give me a sickleTo give the grass a tickle.I will take her with meFor the buffalo is hungryAnd I need her milkFor the dogs to feedWhose help I needTo kill the deerWhose horn I shall takeTo dig some mudFor the potter to makeA cup for me to fillWith water to washMy dirty billSo I can eat the eggsAnd loudly cawTo let everyoneHear me and knowThat I am the most handsome crow.” The blacksmith, like all the others, wanted to save Munni's eggs. Looking up, he said, “Kaka, please go around the back, open the furnace door and put this piece of iron in it.” Kaka was very excited and in his hurry, he quickly flung open the furnace door. As he did this, a sudden gust of wind made him fall backwards on the coal, burning his tail.“Oh ho! Mera poonja sadhiya!”“Oh ho! Mera poonja sadhiya!”Which, in Punjabi, meant, “Oh! My tail has got burnt!” Since Kaka always wanted to look his best, he could not bear to be seen with a burnt tail.So he flew off never to be seen again. What is a Collage?Each of the pictures that you have seen in this book is a collage (pronounced ko–laaj). Collage is a way of making a whole new picture by putting bits of material together. The material could be handmade and printed paper, like in this book. It could be clippings from newspapers and magazines, old greeting cards, photographs, fabric, ribbons, dried flowers and leaves, or anything else that you find lying around!The word “collage” comes from the French word “colle” meaning “glue”. To make a collage, you need bits of different material, a scissor or a pair of nimble fingers to tear up stuff and lots of glue to stick things together. This page shows the four elements, Wind, Water, Earth and a fiery Sun, and uses bits from paper you can spot in the book. Now go ahead and make your own collage!

Basava and his sister Sundari sat on the sand watching the sun rise over the sea. Slowly, the sky turned from grey to blue and the edges of the clouds became an orange colour. They sat staring at the horizon – that line in the distance where the bowl of the sky seemed to curve down to meet the sea.Their father was a sailor who had sailed away on a merchant ship many months ago. The children were eagerly waiting for him to come back home. So, every morning at sunrise, they came and waited by the beach hoping to see the tall red sails of their father's ship rise slowly above the horizon. The children had seen many ships come and go because they lived in Mamallapuram, which was a busy port. The ships came from many distant lands carrying exciting cargo – chests of silk and pottery, jars full of wine, perfumes and even horses. Their father's ship had sailed out carrying logs of cedar and sandalwood, and bags of spices, rice and ghee.“It's been so many months,” Sundari said sadly, “Appa has never been away for so long.”“Remember that big storm last week?” Basava added worriedly, “The sea was full of high waves. I hope Appa's ship is safe.” “Look, a ship is coming!” said Sundari excitedly, “But I can't see the sails.” As they watched eagerly, a ship appeared on the horizon. It was a small dot that slowly grew larger as it came closer. First, they saw the sails filling out with the wind. Then the high masts and the wooden bow rose into view.“No,” said Basava, disappointed, “Appa's ship has red sails with a flying eagle painted on them. This one has black and green sails.”They felt disappointed and decided to go home. They had work to do — they had to help their mother at her vegetable stall in the market. Their father was often away from home and after a while all the money he left behind would get over. That is why their mother sold vegetables, so that they had enough to eat.Sundari enjoyed working at the vegetable stall. The market was such an interesting place! Often their customers were sailors from different lands – some with pale skins and narrow tilted eyes and some with dark skins and curly hair. They wore odd clothes and jewellery and spoke in languages Sundari could not understand at all! This morning, as Basava was laying out bundles of spinach and cabbage, one of their regular customers came to buy vegetables. She was the wife of a trader who often sent spices to other lands by ship. She knew all about the ships coming and going from Mamallapuram.As she picked through the radishes and beans, the trader's wife asked, “Any news of your father?”Sundari shook her head sadly. “Why don't you go and ask at the jetty where all the ships are anchored?” she said.“Ask what?” Basava leaned forward eagerly.“Ask the sailors if they have seen your father's ship on their way to Mamallapuram. My husband does that quite often when his ships are late.” That afternoon, the children headed towards the main jetty. They went through the market and took the street going towards the sea. They went past the warehouses where the merchants kept the goods meant to be loaded into ships.In one warehouse, labourers were unloading bags of pepper and coriander seeds. In another, they were stacking up bales of cotton cloth woven in bright colours. Three ships stood anchored at the jetty, tied to the shore by thick ropes. Two more ships were waiting out at sea. Small boats were moving in and out among them with the boatmen selling everything from flowers and fruits to beads and woodcarvings. Among the ships anchored at the jetty was the ship with the black and green sails that they had seen in the morning.They went towards a ship that was being loaded with goods. As they neared it, a soldier carrying a spear stopped them. “Halt! Watch where you are going!” the man yelled. “No one is allowed on this ship without a royal permit.”“Permit?” Sundari looked puzzled. “Why?”“Because it is a royal ship, you silly girl!”“You mean this ship belongs to the royal navy?” Basava's eyes widened in surprise. “Are we going to war?”“Of course not! This is a trading ship. His Majesty King Narasimha Varman owns many ships that trade with far off kingdoms. This one is going to the port of Tamralipti in the north.”“We are looking for a ship that has come from the kingdom of Kamboja...” Sundari began hesitantly. “Our father is a sailor and he sailed for Kamboja many months ago. We want to ask the sailors if they have seen his ship.”“Kamboja?” the soldier asked. He then pointed to the ship with the black and green sails and said, “That ship's arrived from there.”Basava and Sundari ran to the ship, up the gangplank and on to its deck. They stopped when they saw that all the sailors on board were foreigners. They were speaking to each other in a strange tongue!“Oh no!” Basava sighed. “How do we make them understand us?”“Easy!” Sundari grinned. “We talk to them like Amma does when they come to buy vegetables.”“Of course!” laughed Basava, “We act and make signs with our hands.”They looked around trying to spot a sailor with a friendly face. Finally, they went up to a sailor sitting on a roll of rope.He was an old man with a dark, leathery, sunburnt face. There were deep lines around his narrow eyes. He wore loose pyjamas, a sleeveless jacket, bright bangles and earrings.“Kamboja?” Sundari asked nervously. The man nodded happily, “Kamboja!”Basava pointed to the sail, then he pointed to the red skirt Sundari was wearing and said, “Ship? Red sail?”The man frowned and shook his head. Sundari tried to explain. She tapped the side of the ship and said, “Ship?” Then she pointed to the sails and to her skirt, “Sail? Red?” The man pointed to the sea and said something in his own language.“Yes! A ship with red sails. Have you seen it?” Sundari asked excitedly. The man looked a bit puzzled.“Our father... Appa!” Sundari was acting out a tall man with a moustache.“Oh!” The man then flapped his arms to mimic a bird flying.“YES!” the children jumped and yelled in delight, “A flying eagle is on the sail!”The man was laughing as he stood up and pulled them by their hands to the other end of the ship. Then he pointed to the horizon where a ship was slowly sailing towards them, its red sails blowing proudly in the breeze.Basava and Sundari were speechless! There, before their eyes, were the familiar high masts, the curving prow, the red sails with flying eagles...“Your Appa is a sailor?” the man asked gently, looking at their delighted faces. “Is he on that ship?”“Oh!” The children stared at him in disbelief.“You can speak our language!” Sundari exclaimed.“A little bit,” the man laughed. “I come to Mamallapuram often. But I did enjoy your acting, especially ‘the tall man with the moustache' part!”Basava and Sundari taught their sailor-friend many new words as they stood at the jetty, waiting happily for the ship to come home. 1. Basava and Sundari lived over 1200 years ago in the kingdom of King Narasimha Varman of the famous Pallava dynasty. The Pallava kingdom extended over present-day Tamil Nadu.2. The town of Mamallapuram is near Chennai and is famous for its temples. At one time, it was a port from where ships sailed to Cambodia, Burma and Indonesia. Kamboja is the ancient name of Cambodia and Tamralipti was a port in Bengal. 3. What did children study in school in the Pallava times? The subjects included logic, law, mathematics, grammar, astronomy, philosophy, the Vedas, economics and politics.4. Women, especially of noble families, were educated, but were not allowed to study the Vedas.5. People in the Pallava times dyed their hair, used scented hair oil and perfumes. They even used toothpicks after their meals!

Arjun had three wheels, one headlight and a coat of green and yellow. He belonged to the largest family in the whole of Delhi. Everywhere Arjun went there were brothers, sisters, aunties, uncles and cousins.‘Go carefully!' they beeped.‘Sure!' he would beep in reply. Arjun worked hard, day and night.Pht-pht-tuka-tuka-tuk, he went. Pht-pht-tuka-tuka-tuk!He never complained because Autowallah Sirish worked hard too. Sirishji had old bones that caused him pain. He decorated Arjun's dashboard with plastic flowers and pictures of movie stars. He quenched Arjun's thirst for clean gas, even when the queues were long. And whenever Arjun's canopy was torn, he wasted no time taking it to be patched. Arjun liked taking whole families to Lajpat Nagar Market. His heart sang when tourists chose three wheels over four. He loved to rest with Sirishji in the shade of a tree outside Qutab Minar. Arjun never tired of the glamour of Connaught Place at night. He was thrilled by the bustle outside the railway station, and by the crowds that spewed from Feroz Shah Kotla after a cricket match.Life was good, and Arjun knew he should never wish for more. But secretly, Arjun did wish for more. Secretly, he wanted to fly. Oh, to have helicopter blades! Arjun thought. They would chop the air above his canopy. Sirishji would wrap his head in a scarf, and the ends of it would flap gaily in the breeze. Off they would go, pht-pht-tuka-tuka-tuk in the sky! But Arjun knew this was only a dream. An auto having helicopter blades would be like an elephant having wings, or a train that could zoom off into space like a rocket, with its carriages trailing behind. One hot day, Arjun was waiting in a hotch-potch of traffic at a busy intersection. Behind Sirishji sat a grey-haired woman in a dull, well-worn saree.Pht-pht-pht-pht... A grubby boy came squeezing between cars and autos, selling water. His eyes sparkled like polished stones as he held out one frosted bottle.“Ma'am? Very cold... very good... magic.”The woman laughed. “Magic?”The boy wobbled his head with such gusto that Arjun thought it might fall off. "We all need a little magic," the woman said. She produced some rupees and took two bottles from the boy. Immediately, she handed one to Sirishji. Sirishji smiled broadly, showing the woman his paan-stained teeth. He drank quickly and the traffic budged.“Already the magic is working,” Sirishji joked. The woman drank too, spilling a little on Arjun as he started forward.Pht-pht-tuka-tuka-tuk went Arjun, beeping a cheery hello to one of his brothers. No sooner were they moving than Arjun began to feel light on his wheels. The traffic parted before him and he sailed through. Astonished by the open road, Sirishji caught the woman's eye in his rear-view mirror.“Yes, very magical, ma'am!”Now the woman's saree carried a brilliant sheen, and was embroidered with fine gold thread. “Magic...” she chuckled. Arjun's wheels lifted off the road. Up, up he went...Pht-pht-tuka-tuka-tuk... up, up, up! There were no helicopter blades to help him. Magic, Arjun thought. It's auto magic! A flock of birds scattered. Arjun's headlight was lit with joy. Arjun flew high above Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and India Gate. He looked upon Humayun's Tomb, the Yamuna River and the gracious temple of Akshardham. He saw a giant web of roads, like the work of a crazy spider.Wide-eyed, Sirishji began shrieking with the fun of it all. He no longer gripped the handlebar, no longer dodged cars. The woman fingered her beautiful saree. “Sir,” she called, looking at the rear-view mirror. “Your face!”When Sirishji looked at himself, he saw a face like that of a Bollywood hero. His teeth shone white and his skin was radiant. “We must drink more water,” he roared. But what are we doing? Arjun wondered. Where can we go? What am I, if I am no longer driven? Never had Arjun been so free. Yet never had he felt so lost.In the world he had known, every journey had purpose, each destination was temporary. In boundless quiet above all the honking cars, Arjun missed the roads of his life, jammed with cars, motorcycles and buses. Below, he saw his family at work, dots of yellow canopy glowing bright like beacons.Arjun even missed the rush and bustle of people, all so eager to arrive somewhere else. Places to go, places to go...pht-pht-tuka-tuka-tuk... The woman looked down and thought of the joys below. It was easy now to forget the shimmer of her saree.I was going to visit my daughter and grandchildren, she thought. They will be waiting. They are the real magic in my life. Already, Sirishji was tired of his Bollywood face. What use is it, he wondered. Once he had wished only for this. Now Sirishji wanted only the comfort of his own skin. Arjun's headlight had grown dull. He felt aimless. He could read Sirishji's thoughts. He could sense the woman's mood.Lower and lower he flew. The city radiated warmth. The nearer Arjun got, the more energy it gave him. Sirishji became busy again, drinking in the familiar magic of the city. Every sign and every turning spoke to him. Very soon he could recognise himself again. He knew where he was going. He was already there. The woman's saree became dull, but her face was bright. Down to earth they came.Arjun's wheels touched warm asphalt and his engine sighed with relief. Pht-pht-tuka-tuka-tuk... “Go carefully,” beeped a brother from the street corner. The woman's grandchildren waved from a window above. She stepped down and handed Sirishji her fare. “Auto! Auto! Auto!” Arjun heard the wonderful cry of a stranger.Every ride would be new, part of his endless journey, full of surprises.

Once upon a time there lived threegirls in a desert village in theKalahari. Katitu Momambo was theyoungest of the three. She wassmall but clever and wise.The three big girls went into theveld one day to gather food andwood. Little Katitu ran after them,but the sisters sent her back. "Goback Katitu! You are too small to gowith us! Stay at home!" they said.Katitu did not pay attention tothem. She followed them from adistance. When they noticed her, they weretoo far away from home to send herback, so she joined them.While she was walking behindthem, Katitu cut herself some wood.She made herself a bow and manyarrows.The girls walked and walked andwalked until the sun dropped intothe Kalahari horizon. They werelost.They walked into a deserted villageand found a hut in which to spendthe night. An old woman was sitting next tothe hut.Little Katitu went and greeted her."Oh?" answered the old woman,"This is the village of the Big Snake!He stays in a big hole in the cattlekraal. When people come to milkthe cows, he eats them! He will goto your hut at night when you sleepand kill you there!" Wise little Katitu did not panic. She asked the old woman for ahard cow skin to cover the door of their sleeping hut. Then Katituwanted to sleep a little, so that she could stay awake throughoutthe night. "When the wind begins to blow," she said to her sisters,"you must wake me up."The wind came up, the sisters awoke Katitu and went to sleep.Katitu fixed the hard cow skin against the door of the hut andmade a little hole in the middle for her bow and arrows.Katitu heard the Big Snake approach. "Hai, gom-gom, hai, gom-gom,where are they?" sang the BigSnake.The little clever girl answered himwith a chant, "Here they are, herethey are!"Then the Big Snake rushed againstthe hard skin at the door of the hut.Little Katitu shot an arrow throughthe hole in the skin.Yes, the little girl killed the BigSnake. Then Katitu woke up the older girls."Sister, sister, sister," shewhispered, "get up, get up, get up!" And when the girls woke up theysaw a big snake lying there."Come, we have to take him back tohis hole!" shouted Katitu.They rolled him up, rolled him up,rolled him up and they set him rightback in his hole."Hurry! We have to run!" And thegirls ran and ran and ran. The next morning, the Big Snake's wife told his children to go andlook for him. When his children found him lying dead in his hole,they screamed: "Father is dead! Quick, let us go after those girls!"All the snake's children went after the girls.Katitu told her sisters to turn into trees. When the snakes arrivedat the spot where they had seen the girls, only trees were standingthere. The snakes were tired and lay under the trees to sleep.When they were asleep, the girls turned back into human beingsand ran on. The girls continued to run and werevery tired and thirsty. Eventually,they saw a waterhole! None of oldersisters wanted to scoop the waterfrom the deep well. They askedKatitu to climb in as she was thesmallest."Will you help me out of the well if Iclimb into it?" asked Katitu."Yes," they replied, "we will helpyou."Katitu went into the well andscooped water for her sisters. Each girl drank and then walkedaway. They all left Katitu in the deepwell and walked home.Later that evening, the elephantscame to drink. One of them drankand left. Another one drank and left.The last elephant drank andswallowed Katitu with the water!A few drops of Katitu's bloodsprayed onto the reeds growing atthe water hole. Meanwhile, Katitu's sisters had arrived home without any food orwood. They were crying and told the family that Katitu was lost.Everyone started searching for her.Katitu's little brother and his friend were searching too. Theybecame very tired and rested next to a waterhole. They cut somereeds to make themselves flutes. When Katitu's brother played onhis flute, the flute sang by itself:"Is this my brother who plays me, who plays me,The other girls left me, left me and the elephant swallowed me,swallowed me!"The boy rushed home and handed the reed to his father, whoplayed it. And again, the reed sang:"Is this my father who plays me, plays me?The other girls left me, left me, and the elephant swallowed me,swallowed me!"The father handed the reed to Katitu's mother, who played it. Andagain, the reed sang:"Is this my mother who plays me, plays me?The other girls left me, left me, and the elephant swallowed me,swallowed me!" Katitu's father called the youngmen of the homestead and orderedthem to find the tracks of theelephants and find Katitu.The young men hurried off. Theymet the first group of elephants andasked them, "Elephants, elephants,have you seen the one whoswallowed our girl?"And the elephants sang:"!a plaf! !a plaf! We trot lightly. Weare so light, we carry nothing!"And they passed on. The young men met up with an oldelephant in the bush and asked,"Old elephant, elephant, have youseen the one who swallowed ourgirl?" The old elephant sang:"!a plaf! !a plaf! I trot lightly! I amso light, I carry nothing!"But now the young men heard alittle voice in the belly of theelephant."Cut him open! Go on, cut him onhis left side, for I am sitting on hisleft side!" said the voice. They held the old elephant down and cut open his belly. There waslittle Katitu lying inside! The young men took her out and carriedher home. Katitu was welcomed as a hero by the villagers.And that is the tale of Katitu Mamombo. The wise little girl whosaved her sisters from the Big Snake, saved them from the snake'schildren, and (with the help of her brother) saved herself from thebelly of the elephant.Of course, her sisters were punished. Story notesJu|'hoan storyteller, Nxisae Magdaline Nxao, told a short version ofthis story in Dkar, Botswana, in 2005 (Winberg 2009). In 1993,Sigrid Schmidt recorded another version from Paulina Oxoros innorthern Namibia (Schmidt 2007: 59). This particular version wasretold by Marlene Winberg in 2013 for the Cave to Cave EuropeanUnion storytelling project in Spain, based on Nxao and Schmidt'srecording. The 'clever little girl' belongs to a well-known story typewhere a vulnerable young girl (or young boy), saves the lives ofothers, by engaging her wit and the power of words, rather thansupernatural means to solve problems.The illustrations in this story are from story boards by MarleneWinberg, interpreted digitally by Satsiri Winberg throughmanipulations of the Manyeka Art Collection of paintings made bySan artists.

This is the story of a nine-year old giant called Paplu. He was very different from the other giants. They loved to fight, whereas Paplu hated fighting. While his classmates would spend their time twisting the ears of dinosaurs or yanking the tails of tigers, Paplu would be busy protecting his friends.Paplu's mother was worried about her son. One night she woke up Paplu. “Son, you will never be happy staying in our tribe. I am taking you to a village where people are normal human beings. You will stay there with Raghav, the head man.”Just before they reached the village, Paplu's mother asked him to close his eyes. When he opened them, he almost fainted. He had shrunk to one-tenth his size and so had she. Paplu's mother handed him over to Raghav and left. Paplu soon made friends with the boys and girls of the village.One day Raghav came home very worried.“A ruthless bandit called Angaar has blocked the only way out of our village. We cannot go to our farms to work and will surely starve,” he said. Paplu wished he could help Raghav in some way.Paplu suddenly remembered something. Before leaving the forest, his mother had told him the magic words which would make him a giant once again. And as a giant, he would easily be able to take care of Angaar.Paplu did everything he could, including standing on his head and pulling his own ears, but he couldn't remember those words. Then Paplu heard a soft lisp. “Paplu paiyaa, play with me, pleath.”It was his two-year old neighbour Soni. Paplu was her best friend. He picked her up and threw her high in the air and she started singing:“Paplu paiyya, Paplu paiyaa thlow me up, cath me quick, Paplu paiyya, Paplu paiyya please show me youll magic thlik.”Paplu froze! These words and the tune sounded very familiar. He rushed inside and came out with a blue stone in his hand.He now remembered what his mother had told him, “Son, throw the stone in the air and say these words: I'll throw you up, I'll catch you quick. Don't forget my magic trick.” As Paplu threw the stone and recited the words, he felt himself swelling up like a balloon.Suddenly he heard a sound – R-r-rip! R-ri-ip!! His clothes were tearing. If he didn't look for cover, he would soon be standing bang in the middle of the village, in clothes hundred sizes too small for him.All he would have to cover his modesty would be strips of cloth and little else. Paplu rushed into the woods with the sound ‘R-r-rip! Rri-i-p!' chasing him. Once deep into the undergrowth, Paplu got down on his knees.It looked like he had missed a word or two in the magic chant his mother had made him learn. That is why his clothes had not grown along with his body! What was he to do now? Although he had become a giant, he couldn't venture out on his rescue mission in his birthday suit. He needed clothes urgently. But how was he to get clothes his size and that too, quickly?He heard a voice and looked down. It was Raghav. “Soni told me you had become big and that you had run away somewhere. When I heard this strange story, I came out to investigate.”“Using a magic trick my mother taught me, I have become a giant. Now I can take care of Angaar and his gang,” said Paplu.“That's great, then what are you waiting for?”“My clothes didn't keep pace with my growth. I am wearing almost nothing. How can I come out like this?” Raghav thought for some time and said, “Okay, give me some time. By nightfall, I'll have your clothes ready.” Raghav went back home and summoned all the tailors in the village. Twenty one tailors appeared in no time. Raghav explained the problem to them and said, “I want a pair of pyjamas and a kurta, to be stitched as soon as possible for Paplu.”Soon ‘Operation Paplu Dress' started. It was quite funny to see the tailors scrambling up Paplu's back, legs and hands to take his measurements. The whole village got into action contributing whatever material they could. Even Soni donated her doll's shawl to the project!In seven hours, the dress was ready. In seven hours, with a whoop of joy, Paplu stood up towering over the villagers. He looked really smart with the multi-coloured kurta and an equally multi-coloured pyjama. There was thunderous applause. It was just past midnight. Angaar and his men were fast asleep. Only two bandits were on guard. Suddenly Angaar woke up. He could hear a strange sound. He got up and picking up his sword, rushed out of his tent. The other dacoits too were coming out of their enclosures, spears and swords in hand.“Whoosh!” There was the sound again. It seemed to be growing louder and closer. “WHOOSH!”Angaar looked around. A dust storm seemed to be gathering momentum.Trees had started swaying and the noise was slowly becoming deafening.“WHOOSH! WHOOSH!” Angaar felt himself being picked up by the air current. He desperately tried to hold on, flaying his arms and legs, but it was no use. He was flying in the air.To his left, was his deputy Jarnail looking like an ungainly dinosaur. To his right, was his most accomplished swordsman, Talwar, air-borne like his colleagues, desperately trying to reach out for his sword which was flying ahead of him. A few minutes later, there was a splash. They landed in the river to the south of the village. As they swam to the shore, spluttering and shivering, a huge shadow loomed over their heads.“Angaar, you scoundrel!” the shadow thundered, its voice echoing in the night.“Y...yes,” stammered the dreaded Angaar. He had never been so terrified in his life, since the day his father, Rosh Bundela had walloped him for eating up his jalebis.“This time I have merely roughed you up. Next time, if you or any of your men come anywhere close to the village, I'll rip each and every limb from your bodies and chew them up.”“Y..yes, Maharaj, we will never again come within a thousand miles of this place.” “Good. Remember, if I hear you are even passing through these parts, I'll make a paste of you and your gang and feed it to the fish in this river.”“Yes, Maharaj. But please, do tell me, who are you? I have never seen you in these parts.”“I am a guardian of this village,” Paplu said. He paused for a good ten seconds and then in his deepest tone said, “And my name is Paplu, the Giant.”And with these words, Paplu stormed back to the village. Angaar and his men left the same night and were never heard of again.Paplu went back to his original shape and size. However, he couldn't get back his original name. No one called him Paplu anymore. To everyone, and even to Soni, he was Paplu, the Giant.

“Kallu get up! You'll get late for school again! KALLOOO!”The urgent voice pierced through a lovely dream in which Kallu and his friend Damu were catching a huge fish in the river, and for some strange reason the fish was smiling at them.Kallu pushed a bleary face out of his quilt and protested sleepily, “Shabbo it's too early! I hardly slept!”“No, it isn't,” his brother Shabbo said firmly. “The sun came up long ago. Ammi has already milked the buffalo and we've all had breakfast.”Kallu sat up shivering and looked out of the window and mumbled, “Sun? I don't see any sun.”“That's the mist you idiot! Abbu has already gone to work in the vegetable field and all the school kids of our mohalla went past long ago.”“Everyone's gone?” Kallu about to yawn swallowed it in panic. “Even Munia?” Shabbo nodded silently, his face looking really gloomy.“BAAP RE!”Throwing back the quilt, Kallu struggled out of bed. He couldn't get late for school again! He just couldn't! Two days earlier, Masterji had threatened that one more late entrance in class and the punishment would get really serious. He was even thinking of not promoting him to the next class. And that too after he made Kallu stand in a corner holding his ears for hours and hours.“I have to think up a story right now!” Kallu thought desperately as he hunted for his chappals under the bed. “A really wonderful, heartbreaking, very convincing story...”He rushed at super speed to get ready, like he did every morning. He quickly splashed some freezing water on his face to really open his eyes, no bath of course.Luckily it was winter or his mother would have made him take one. He grabbed a shirt, trousers and sweater and hopped about putting them on. Shoving his feet into his chappals, he looked at his younger brother and panted, “You're so lucky Shabbo! No school for a whole month!”Shabbo sitting by the window, his right leg covered in plaster, said grimly, “Sure! Breaking a leg is great fun. I love sitting here all day, getting so bored I could tear out my hair, while you go off with Damu to play football. Zaroor, I'm having fun!”By the time he finished speaking, Kallu was already out of the house and half way down the lane. Shabbo leaned out of the window to watch his hurrying figure vanish through the swirling mist. Then a huge delighted grin slowly spread across his face.“He's gone!” Shabbo sang out.“You can come out Munia!”His sister Munia who had been hiding behind a cupboard, came out with an even bigger smile on her face. They were laughing so much that Munia got an attack of hiccups.On his way out, Kallu had grabbed a dry chapati from the kitchen and now taking a bite he mumbled to himself, “A story Kallan Mian! A very convincing, brand new story or you're standing in the corner again.”Life was a mystery to Kallu. He liked school, he really did. He enjoyed doing sums and learning science, he loved playing football and singing in the school programmes. But then why, oh why, did he find it so hard to get to school on time? Even Masterji couldn't really understand it. He had suggested sarcastically that Kallu should start sleeping in the school veranda at night, and all the other kids in his class had laughed at Kallu.The problem was that things were getting serious now. If Masterji really did not promote him to class nine, then he was in deep trouble because then his Abbu would make him leave school and make him work in the vegetable fields. Who wanted to pull up spinach and collect carrots and peas when he could go to school? School was a hundred times more fun and he knew that if he could pass the twelfth class board exam, he could find a good job, may be even go to college! Going to college... ah! That was Kallu's biggest dream.What Kallu really wanted to do, was to complete his twelfth class and then learn about computers. Masterji said he had the brains to do that. Last month, he had taken their class to a computer show in the nearby town and they all thought the machines were totally amazing! The salesman had shown him the correct way to use the mouse and how you could go into the Internet. That was absolute magic! Now Kallu and Damu wanted to become magicians with the mouse, going zip-zap across the computer screen.On the way back in the bus, he and Damu had worked out a fantastic plan. Now that the new highway went past Khajuria village, they would open a dhaba-cum-STD booth-cum-computer centre right beside it. Damu, who dreamed of food all the time would run the dhaba, and Kallu would manage the STD booth.Truck drivers would eat at the dhaba and call home from the STD booth and the people from all the nearby villages sending vegetables, wheat and sugarcane to the wholesale market, could check out the latest market prices on the Internet.“Kya baat! ‘Damodar Dhaba and Kallan Computer Centre'.” Damu smiled and then turned to give Kallu an anxious glance, “If only you would get to school on time.”Whizzing past the tea shop, still munching the chapati, Kallu yelled, “Salaam Dharam Chacha!”Dharampal, the chai shop owner, looked up from the boiling kettle and gave a surprised look, “Arrey it's Kallu!” Then his grin widened as his eyebrows shot up, “What's the matter? Did the sun rise from the west today? Where are you going so early in the morning?”“Schooooool!”“Have a pakora first!” And he laughed. “Garam garam Dharam ke pakorey!”Hurrying along Kallu had no time to reply. Dharampal Chacha jokes about everything, he grumbled to himself. Here Kallu was in serious trouble and he was talking about silly pakoras. What was so funny about Kallu getting late for school anyway? It happened every week! Of course, the most disastrous was when he arrived late, day before yesterday. There was a rehearsal for the 26th January programme and when he crept into the school courtyard, they were already singing “Jaiya he!” of the National Anthem. And Kallu was supposed to be there in front with Damu, Munia and Saru leading the singing.So he stood at the back, sang “Jaiya he!” and was trying to sneak off to class when someone grabbed him by the collar and hauled him back.His heart nearly stopped as he looked up at Masterji's grim face.“You are again late for rehearsals, so you're out of the show.” Masterji's voice was cold as ice.“Oh no! Please Masterji!” Kallu had tears in his eyes and these were real tears, not the ones he could bring out at will. He really wanted to be part of the show. “Please... please...” he pleaded desperately. “I promise I won't be late again.”“Fine.” Masterji's voice softened a bit. “I'll let you go this time, but one more late mark and you're out! Get that?” Kallu nodded with a sniff. By then they had reached Kallu's classroom and as Kallu headed to his seat, he said, “Where are you going? Stand in the corner, holding your ears.” His classmates had already begun to giggle when Masterji came up with the final, terrible threat, “May be I won't promote you. Kallan - failed in eighth because of late marks!”And now he was late again. His life was over.A good story... thought Kallu ...a really credible excuse. He had come up with so many in the past, why couldn't he think of a new one today?In his mind's eye, he could see Masterji frown in disbelief looking down at Kallu, as he stood stammering and stuttering away. He was concentrating so hard on his story, he ran straight into a herd of buffaloes.Just my luck, he thought in disgust, dodging the mooing cattle. In a life threatening crisis like this, what do I do? I crash into Badri and his fat buffaloes. Puffing and panting, slithering through the mud, he struggled through. Badri, the mad buffalo man in his huge turban, waved a stick in greeting and smiled behind his bushy moustache.“Aren't you early Kallu? Why don't you help me wash the buffaloes and then go to school?”“Are you joking?”“No. I'll give you five rupees. There's time, you're early.”“Sure, I'm early,” muttered Kallu irritated. “I'm so early it's not even today yet, it's still yesterday. And I'll also feed your buffaloes and dance with them.”“Heh! Heh!” Badri laughed as he slapped a buffalo on the rump. “You're really funny Kallan!”Kallu kept running. The whole village is against me, he thought gloomily, even crazy Badri. Can't they stop joking and teasing a poor boy like me? And then he got busy with the story-cum-excuse problem once again.Ammi was sick and he had to make breakfast? Nope. He'd tried that one at least twice before. It won't work again.The goat had run away? Nah! It didn't work last time. Someone stole his pen? The pen was right there in his school bag.His chappals broke and he had to get them repaired? No way! They were brand new.Going past Damu's house, he saw his best friend and his sister Saru sitting on a charpai in the courtyard, eating breakfast. Ha! They were late too, Kallu thought in triumph, and they are still eating, so they'll come in after me, and hopefully Masterji will be so busy yelling at them, he'll forget about me.Damu looked up, his eyes wide in surprise, “Oye Kallu! Wait for me yar!”“Paranthas, Kallu Bhaiya,” Saru called out. “Gobhi paranthas!”“No time!” Kallu huffed past at full speed. “Meet you in school.”“Theek hai. See you later.” Damu shrugged and went back to eating.Damu and Saru are so lucky, Kallu thought. They lived right next to school. They could even leave home when the school bell rang. As he got to the school gate, Kallu's heart began to thud really fast. Guess who was standing there, stuffing a paan into his mouth. Masterji!! Talk of bad luck!Kallu skated to a stop, and began in a nervous rush, “I'm sorry I'm late Masterji, but today it's not my fault at all! I had to help Shabbo take a bath. You know he's broken his leg and...” he came to a sudden stop because of an amazing sight. Masterji, the scariest human being on earth, was laughing!“Wait!” Masterji held up a hand, while he tried to stop from choking on his paan. “Why are you telling me a new story today?”“What story?” Kallu tried hard to look shocked. “I never tell stories... I mean... but...” Things are getting very strange here, thought Kallu. “Every word is hundred percent true, Masterji!”“You are nearly fifteen minutes early Kallan,” Masterji's smile still lingered.“EARLY?” Kallu froze in shock. “WHAT DO YOU MEAN EARLY?”Masterji pointed to his watch, “See? Seven forty five.”“Munia's not here?”“No one's here yet.” And Masterji laughed again, sending out a spray of paan juice into the air. “No one except you!”Kallu stood still, “You mean I could have slept more? I had time for breakfast?” He nodded to himself. “Now I know. It's Shabbo and Munia. I'll kill them. I really will. Just because Shabbo is bored he's played this trick on me.”"And you wasted a good story too,” Masterji said sympathetically. “Better come in anyway.”“I'll make Shabbo pay for this,” Kallu said through gritted teeth.“I really will.”“What will you do?”“I'll break his other leg!!” said Kallu with a glare.

One sunny morning, the woodcutter of Gura set out to get some firewood. He walked across the plain until he came to the great big olive tree by the river.He climbed the tree and perched himself at the end of the largest branch. Then he made himself comfortable, swung his axe, and began to cut the branch on which he was sitting.The village priest, who was passing by, looked up at the woodcutter and stopped to talk to him. “Brother, what are you doing?” he cried. “That's no way to chop wood!”“What other way is there?” answered the woodcutter. “If you want wood, you must lift your axe and keep going chop-chop-chop!"“But you're sitting at the end of the branch and chopping it in the middle! The branch will break, and when it does, you'll fall down and die,” warned the priest. The woodcutter thought the priest was joking. In any case, he was stubborn and lazy, and didn't want to get up and change his position, so the priest shook his head and walked away. And the woodcutter sat exactly where he was, and went chop-chop-chop, once again. Suddenly, there was a mighty loud c-r-a-c-k, and down crashed the branch, the man and his axe!As he lay on the ground, dazed and bewildered and aching everywhere, the woodcutter remembered his conversation with the priest.“The priest said three things – that the branch would break, that I would fall...and be killed. The priest was right. The branch broke just as he said it would, and I fell too.The priest is indeed a very wise man, so whatever he says must be true. Ah, me! Then I must be dead!”It did not take the woodcutter long to convince himself that he was really dead. So he just closed his eyes and lay on the ground without moving. After a while, his friends came along and called out to him, but the woodcutter lay perfectly still. They shook him and splashed water on his faced. But the woodcutter neither spoke nor moved as he had made up his mind that he was quite dead.They tried to make him stand, but the woodcutter thought to himself, “Surely, a dead man can't stand up!” and promptly fell down again. Now his friends too were convinced that he was dead. So they lifted him up and began to carry him back to the village. “Pick up my axe!” shouted the woodcutter, and they did.Soon they came to a fork in the path and there they stopped. Should they turn right or left? The friends stood there and began to argue long and loud. The woodcutter got so irritated that he sat up and pointed out the way. Then he lay down and shut his eyes again. And his friends carried him to the village saying, “Ah, what a clever man! He always knew the answer to everything. What a pity he's dead!”Soon they reached the woodcutter's house, but found no one at home. So they put him on the floor and began to argue about what they should do next. “Send for my wife, of course!” the woodcutter cut in angrily.“Right away, brother! Who would have thought that a dead man could come up with such a clever idea!” marveled his friends, and they promptly sent for his wife. Sobbing and wailing, the woodcutter's wife appeared, and many of the villagers followed her into the house.“A branch fell on him and killed him,” the friends began to explain.“No! No! No!” exclaimed the woodcutter, “How many times am I to tell you I was sitting on the branch and it broke?”“But my husband is talking! How can he be dead! What happened to him?” cried the woodcutter's wife.“How...when...what.... Woman, it's not respectful to ask the dead all those questions,” said the friends.“I tell you he isn't dead at all,” said the woodcutter's wife. “Use your brains!”The woodcutter was getting irritated now. “The wise priest told me the branch would break, and I would surely fall down and die. The branch broke and I fell. The priest was speaking the truth. So I must be dead.” “Nonsense! In any case, the priest didn't see you after you fell, so...” began his wife.“Nag! Nag! Nag!” said the woodcutter getting up from the ground in disgust. He picked up his axe and went out of the house.“Where are you going?” asked his wife.“To get some firewood so that you can cook dinner,” he said, walking away.“What a fine man!” murmured his friends. “Even when he's dead he doesn't forget his duty!”* * *And that is why it is often said, “A fool always finds one still more foolish to admire him!” RAFT CRAFTWhat do you think the woodcutter of Gura was chopping wood for? Perhaps to light a fire and cook his food. What other uses of wood can you think of?Do you know that people sail across lakes and rivers in rafts made with logs of wood tied together? How about making your own toy raft? It's easy – grab some sticks or twigs... and get, set, and sail away! You need:A. 11 straight twigs or sticks 16 cm long. (They should be about as thick as your little finger)B. StringC. Thick paper cut into a triangle 8 cm in height for the sail. (You could also cut out a colourful picture from a magazine cover or paint your own picture for the sail.) TO MAKE THE RAFT1. Take 8 sticks and place them side by side.2. Place a stick across each end of the raft as shown. Tie the sticks together with the string to secure your raft.3. Take another stick (this will be your mast) and poke it through the sail as shown. Be careful not to tear the sail when yo do this.4. Push the lower end of the sail (the mast, that is) down the middle of the raft, between the 4th and 5th sticks. The mast should stay up straight.Now find a pool or a puddle or even a bucket of water, and set your raft to s-a-i-l. Enjoy!

In Kaohsiung in southern Taiwan, there is a mountain called Ban Pin Shan, meaning ‘one half'. Strange name for an ordinary mountain, you might think.But take one look at it and you will see why it is called so. It looks like one half of the mountain is missing! Almost as if someone has cut off the top neatly, with a big sword. Before you start to wonder how it got its name, let me tell you the legend behind it.Long, long ago, when Ban Pin Shan was still a whole mountain, there used to be a village near it. One day, a very old man came to the village carrying a huge pot on his head.His hair was white as snow, and so was his beard. His face was wrinkled like the old, worn-out clothes he wore. He set the pot down in the village square and opened the lid. The sweet smell of fresh dumplings filled the air.“Hot dumplings! Fresh, hot dumplings!” he yelled. “One for one cent, two for two cents and three, for FREE!”Villagers passing by became curious and crowded around this foolish man who was giving away dumplings that looked inviting and smelt absolutely delicious.“One for one cent, two for two cents and three, for FREE!” yelled the old man again. “Red beans and sesame, and three for free.”The villagers who had gathered around the old man began whispering to each other. “Must be a trick! Three dumplings for free? How can that be?” they said.“The most delicious ones, Sir,” said the old man as he handed the first one to Big-Head Wang.It was as big as an egg. Big-Head Wang popped it into his mouth and went mmmm.... Everyone could see that he was really enjoying the dumpling.By the time he finished the second one, his stomach was full. But he looked at the old man and said, “If I eat the third one, I don't have to pay. It is not a lie, right?” He wanted to make sure the old man had meant what he said.“Three for free and that it will be!” said the old man, handing Big-Head Wang the third dumpling, which he promptly stuffed into his mouth. If he could eat it, he wouldn't have to pay anything. The old man kept his word and Big-Head Wang went away happy, his stomach full to bursting.Soon, everyone wanted three dumplings each. Not a single villager ordered one or two dumplings; everyone wanted only three for free. In a while, the whole pot was wiped clean. Some of the villagers were disappointed as the old man prepared to leave.“My, my, don't all of you have good appetites,” the old man said as he heaved the empty pot over his head and walked away.Suddenly, Eagle-Eye Chan, who had just gulped down three free dumplings, cried out, “Look! A part of the mountain is missing!”“Nonsense!” said the villagers. “Too many dumplings in your tummy have made you think funny!” All of them laughed at Eagle-Eye Chan, who kept staring at the mountain long after the villagers had left.That evening, everyone was talking about the old man and his delicious dumplings. “He must be a really stupid man to give away three for free!” they said, laughing. “Let's hope he comes every day.”The next morning, the old man arrived again, carrying his pot of dumplings. He set the pot down again in the village square.“One for one cent, two for two cents and three, for FREE!” he yelled. “Peanuts and sesame, and three for free.”This time, the pot was emptied an hour earlier than the previous day. The villagers had eaten up all the dumplings, three apiece. And for free. Quietly, the old man heaved the pot over his head and left, smiling a strange smile.On the third day, the old man came again. This time, the villagers were waiting for the stupid old man to arrive. Soon, they were trying to eat as many dumplings as possible, for free.Suddenly, a voice said, “Mister, can I have one dumpling, please?”Everyone froze! Their mouths hung open with bits of dumpling falling out, as they tried to catch sight of whoever had uttered the words. Now, which idiot would want to pay for ONE dumpling when he could have THREE for FREE? There was pin-drop silence. They saw a young man with a soft face standing in the middle of the crowd, a single cent in his outstretched hand.The old man spoke. “Young man, didn't you hear me?” he said. “One for one cent, two for two cents and three, for FREE!”“Yes, I did,” said the young man in a sincere voice. “But I've seen how you've carried this huge pot every day, giving away your dumplings, three for free.You have not made any money in the last few days and I feel sorry for you. I want to help, but I have only enough money to pay for one dumpling.”When the villagers heard the young man, their hearts were filled with shame. They hung their heads in silence.The old man stepped towards the young man and embraced him. “Ha! At last I've found you!” he cried. “I am the mountain god and I choose you to be my pupil. I will teach you all the magic that I know,” he said, as tears flowed down his old, wrinkled face.The villagers quickly realized that the mountain god had disguised himself as this old man to test them. And to find a kind-hearted soul who could become his pupil.Then, the mountain god revealed to the utter shock of everyone present that the dumplings they had been eating weren't real dumplings.They were made from the mud that he had dug out from the mountain. As soon as the villagers heard this, they ran to see the leftover dumplings in the pot. But all they saw was a pot full of mud! And when they turned to look at the mountain, they couldn't believe their eyes! There was only half of it left standing! Just as Eagle-Eye Chan had said. But they had been too greedy to listen....Soon, the mountain god took his young disciple with him to the mountain to teach him the magic of the gods. As for the villagers, their hearts were filled with remorse and they cursed themselves for being so greedy. They named the mountain Ban Pin Sghan – a name that stands to this day – and vowed to be less greedy.Now tell me, if an old man came to your town selling delicious dumplings, “One for one cent, two for two cents and three, for FREE!” – how many would you buy? PAPER PIZZAZZ!Did you notice the lovely hats that the characters in the story are wearing? These traditional hats are worn by farmers while working in the fields to protect themselves from the sun. Would you like to have one for your self? Then here's one you can make easily.YOU NEED:A. sheet of chart paper (about the size of a newspaper), B. Scissors, C. Glue,D. Two pieces of string HOW TO MAKE THE PAPER HAT:1. Cut out a large circle from the chart paper.2. Draw a ‘V' on the circle as shown. Cut it out.3. Overlap the cut edge (marked ‘A') over the other (marked ‘B') as shown. Stick them together. You will now have a conical hat.4. Make two holes in the hat and tie the strings to them as shown.5. There! Your hat is now ready to protect you from the sun!Decorate your hat with fancy designs.

Once upon a time, there was a boy called Demane.He had a twin sister called Demazane. When their mother and father died, they went to stay with their uncle.But they were badly treated.They were beaten with long sticks, and given thin porridge only once a day for food.So they ran away. They found a cave to live in. They were scared because they had heard that there were cannibals living in the hills.So they made a strong door to cover the entrance, with only two holes to let in air and light.Demane warned his sister, "Stay in the cave while I am out hunting, and don't cook any meat. Cannibals love the smell of cooking meat." Each evening Demane brought back something he had killed – a hare or some birds or a small buck.As he came to the cave, he sang, "Demazane, Demazane, child of my mother, open this cave to me. The swallows can enter it. It has two holes." Demazane found it very boring to stay in the cave all day.So one day, when her brother had gone, she went out to explore.She found a stream to play in, and some trees to climb.She felt free and happy. "Perhaps," she thought, "there are no cannibals. Perhaps Uncle said there were cannibals just to frighten us." The next day she felt bold enough to make a fire to warm herself.But she made it inside the cave with the door firmly shut – just to be on the safe side. "I'm sure it won't matter if I put a little meat on the fire. It will be so good to have a cooked meal." When her brother came home he sang as usual,"Demazane, Demazane, child of my mother, open this cave to me.  The swallows can enter it. It has two holes."She opened the door and let him in.When he saw the cooked meat, Demane asked, "How did you do this without a fire?" "I dried the meat in the sun outside the cave," Demazane replied quickly.Demane was too tired to argue, and they sat down to enjoy the meal together. The next day, she made a fire and cooked meat again.She had just finished when a voice sang outside the door, "Demazane, Demazane, child of my mother, open this cave to me. The swallows can enter it. It has two holes."But the voice did not sound like her brother's.Demazane said, "No. You are not my brother. Your voice is not like his."She felt safe in the cave. A little while later, someone was singing outside the cave again, "Do let me in, my sister.""Demazane, Demazane, child of my mother, open this cave to me. The swallows can enter it. It has two holes."The voice sounded just like her brother's, so she opened the door. A huge hairy man filled the opening of the cave.He grabbed Demazane before she could run away.Demazane just had time to pick up some ashes from the fire.As she was being carried away, she dropped some ashes here and there along the path. That day, all Demane had managed to trap was a hive full of bees. He carried them in a thick bag slung over his shoulder.When he came to the cave, he found the door open and his sister gone. But there were ashes pointing the way into the woods.He followed the ash along the path until he saw a fire in the distance. Near the fire was a huge hairy man sitting with a large bag next to him.Demane walked up to the man, pretending to limp, "Please, father, can you help me? I've hurt my leg. I need some water."The man replied, "I'll get you some water, if you will promise not to touch my bag." And he put the bag carefully in his hut. But when he had gone, Demane cut the string of the bag, and out climbed his sister.Demane replaced the bag with his own bag full of bees.Brother and sister hid and waited to see what would happen. When the man came with the water, his son and daughter came with him.He said to his daughter, "There is something nice in the bag in our hut. Go! Bring it!"She opened the bag a little to see what it was, but the bees stung her hand, and she called out, "It is biting." "Go and help her!" he shouted to his son. But the result was the same. "Don't treat me like a fool," he shouted, and stormed into the hut. He closed the door and opened the bag himself.The angry bees swarmed out and stung his head, his nose, his eyes. Blinded, he jumped about, howling with pain. Then he ran and fell headlong into a pond, where his head stuck fast in the mud.He turned into a piece of wood like the stump of a tree. Just right for a bee hive.For a long time after that, Demane and Demazane ate delicious honey from that hive.

Once upon a time, in a little village on the banks of the Irrawaddy river, there lived a young woman called Thuza. She was very happily married to handsome young Theingi. But there was one problem that nagged Thuza – her husband believed he was an alchemist and would spend all his time dreaming about ways to turn dirt into gold.All day, and for days on end, Theingi spent his time in experiments, searching for a breakthrough. Soon, all their money was over, and young Thuza had to struggle to buy food for the two of them. She became very worried. “You should find a job soon,” she pleaded with her husband. “We cannot continue like this!”But Theingi wouldn't listen. “I'm on the verge of a breakthrough! Why do I have to work when we will be rich beyond our wildest dreams? We will soon be able to turn all the dirt we find into gold!”Disheartened, Thuza approached her father, wise old Thet, for a solution. Thet was surprised when he heard that his son-in-law was an alchemist. He thought for a while and asked to see Theingi. Thuza returned home happily that day, for she knew her wise father would have a solution. The next day, Theingi arrived at his father-in-law's house, fully prepared for a scolding. He was taken by surprise when Thet took him aside and whispered, “When I was young like you, I was an alchemist too!”The two of them spent the whole afternoon discussing Theingi's work. Finally, the old man stood up and said, “Why Theingi, you've done everything exactly like I did when I was your age! You are definitely on the verge of a breakthrough! Congratulations! But you seem to be lacking one very important ingredient in your experiments. You will need this when you finally turn dirt to gold. Only recently did I discover this. But I am too old for this task. It requires enormous effort...”“Then let me do it for you, Father!” cried Theingi. He was really excited. All his efforts would pay off at last. “Tell me what the ingredient is!”“Good, you are excited!” said Thet. He leaned closer and whispered, “Son, the secret ingredient is a silver powder that is found only on banana leaves. You will have to plant the bananas yourself and cast certain spells on them. Then, as the plants grow, the powder on the leaves will gain magical powers.” “How much of this powder will we need, Father?” asked Theingi excitedly.“A kilo,” replied Thet.“A kilo!” cried Theingi. “That would require hundreds of banana plants!”“I'm afraid so, Son,” said the old man. “That is why I can't complete the task myself...”“Don't lose heart, Father!” said Theingi. “I shall!”Later that evening, the old man taught his son-in-law the magic spells and loaned him the money to start the work.The very next day, Theingi bought a small field near his home and cleared it. Just as he had been instructed, he dug the ground himself and planted the saplings after carefully chanting the magic spells. Every day he went to the field and examined the saplings. He kept the weeds and pests away diligently. When the plants grew and bore fruit, he carefully collected the silver powder from the leaves and kept it safely in a box. There was hardly any powder on each leaf, so Theingi had to buy more land and grow more bananas. But he was determined to do what was needed. It took him several years, but at the end of it all, he had managed to collect enough of the magic powder. He rushed to his father-in-law, excited as never before. He would soon be able to make gold from mere dirt!“Father, finally... here is the kilo of magic powder!” he cried.The old man was filled with joy. “Wonderful!'' he said. “Wonderful! You've done well, Theingi. I'm proud of you. Now I will show you how to turn dirt into gold. But first, let's get Thuza. We need her help.” Theingi was a little puzzled, but without losing any time, he ran to his wife and was soon back with her.“Thuza,” asked the old man, “what did you do with the bananas when your husband was collecting the powder?”“Why, I sold them, Father,” replied Thuza. “That's how we earned a living.”“Then you must have been able to save some money too. Theingi grew more than enough bananas...” the old man continued.“Yes, I did,” replied Thuza.“Can we see it?” asked Thet.“Of course, I have kept it safely at home,” beamed Thuza.The three of them went to Theingi's house where Thuza produced several bags from the loft where she had kept them safely. Thet opened one of the bags, peered inside, and smiled. He then emptied one of the bags on the table. Gold coins tinkled as they fell in a huge, shiny heap. Then he went to the field and came back with a handful of dirt, which he placed next to the heap of gold. “You see, Theingi,” he said, turning to his son-in-law, “you have changed dirt into gold!”Never after that day did Theingi collect any more magic powder from the leaves. But he continued to grow bananas. His “alchemist” father-in-law had taught him the best way to turn dirt into gold, after all. He didn't need the magic powder any more. BANANAGIC!After Theingi's magic powder from bananas, how about surprising your friends with some magical bananas?! Tell them about a new variety that you have just discovered – one that grows in slices!MAKE YOUR OWN MAGICAL BANANASYOU'LL NEED:A few ripe bananasA toothpick or sewing needle HOW TO MAKE IT:1. Push the toothpick into the banana somewhere along the seam.2. Without taking it out, carefully rotate the toothpick left and right inside the banana. You should cut all the way through the fruit, but not through the peel, mind you. Also, try and keep the toothpick hole as small as possible – the smaller, the lesser it will be visible. 3. Remove the toothpick and repeat the above step at another spot on the banana, say after an inch. Keep making internal one-inch slices until you have at least five or six. Do these two steps with all the bananas you have.That's it – your magic bananas are ready to eat. Offer the “new variety” to your friends while telling them a big story about how you discovered them in the field nearby. When your friends peel the banana, imagine the look on their faces when they find that it is already sliced? While inside the skin! Isn't that some yummy banana magic?

It was a very special day and so Raza was wearing his best clothes. Today, he was going to meet someone very important – His Majesty Jalaluddin Akbar, the great Mughal king!Raza's father Rahmat Khan was an important man too. He was the royal tailor to the king, and he stitched all his angarakhas – the loose coats that the king wore over his tight churidar pyjamas.This morning they were going to the palace in Fatehpur Sikri with the angarakhas the king had ordered for summer. The king was very fussy about his clothes and it was very hard to please him.Rahmat Khan had worked hard to make the angarakhas – cutting and stitching late into the night. Raza had helped too – putting in tiny stitches using the finest needle and the best silken thread.The spring sun shone brightly, the flowers smiled, and the pigeons cooed happily as the two of them walked to the fortress of Fatehpur Sikri. Two soldiers holding spears stood guarding the gate.“I'm Rahmat Khan,” Raza's father said, “I'm the angarakha maker to His Majesty and I've brought new sets for him.”“Is His Majesty expecting you?” the guard with big moustaches asked.“Ji huzoor. He chose the designs himself.”“Wait here,” the guard turned to go inside, “I'll call the Royal Steward.” After a while the guard returned with another man. Rahmat bowed to him. “I've brought the summer clothes, Dhaniji,” he said.“Good! Come with me. His Majesty is still in his sleeping chamber. He'll see you before he leaves for the royal court.”As they walked in, Raza whispered, “Who is he, Abbu?”“Dhani Singh. He works in the Khwabgah.”“Khwabgah?”“The king's personal palace, where he has his sitting room and bedroom.”It was a long walk. Raza looked around, his eyes wide with wonder. The Mughal palaces were so beautiful! All made of red sandstone with slim carved pillars and curving arches.In between were gardens filled with flowers, lily pools and sparkling fountains. Raza thought he was in heaven.As they waited at the door of the king's bedroom, Raza studied Dhani Singh. Being a tailor's son, he noticed the clothes first.Dhani Singh was wearing a cotton angarakha in a red and white flowery print over white churidars. His nagra shoes had pointed toes that curved inward. He had tied a narrow cloth belt, a patka, at his waist.What Raza liked most was his bright red turban, printed with a design in white and yellow squares and dots. “Your turban is very nice, Dhaniji,” he said, “that's a really pretty design!”“Thank you! I come from the land of the Rajputs and... this design, called bandhani, is from my homeland.”As they entered the room, Raza's heart was thudding. Sunlight poured in through the arched doorways, lighting up the thick silken Persian carpet woven in jewelled colours. The room was furnished with a beautifully carved bed and exquisite chairs. There were silk and gold cushions on the low bed. Even the curtains were made of silk!Raza bowed and then looked at his king. Akbar was choosing jewellery from a box held before him by a servant.He was not very tall but he had the broad shoulders of a sword-fighter. He had large, slightly slanted eyes, a drooping moustache, and a small mole above his lips.Hearing them enter, Akbar turned and smiled, “Ah Rahmat! You've brought the angarakhas? And who is this boy with you?”“My son Raza, huzoor.”“And can you stitch too, Raza?”“I'm learning, huzoor,” Raza replied nervously, “but I still make mistakes in cutting the cloth.”“You'll learn. Your father will teach you,” Akbar said gently.Rahmat opened the bundle and laid out the angarakhas on the bed. They were made of the finest muslin and covered with delicate embroidery. All of them were in light summery colours – cream, lemon, pale blue, green and a sparkling white. Raza knew the king's favourite colour was white.Rahmat helped Akbar put on a white angarakha. Then Dhani Singh brought a large mirror and held it before the king.“I like the embroidery... and it fits well too,” Akbar said, looking pleased. “Now tie a patka. Let's see how it looks.”Rahmat took out a handful of belts and tied a light blue one around Akbar's waist, letting the fringed ends hang in front.“No...” said Akbar moodily, “this is too pale... I want something brighter.”Raza and his father then tried one patka after another – green and yellow, orange and purple, but nothing pleased Akbar.“I don't like any of the colours, Rahmat!” Akbar said, frowning impatiently. Raza saw that his father was beginning to look worried. Oh no! If His Majesty did not like the patkas, would he send all the clothes back? “I have to do something fast!” Raza thought.He looked around and said suddenly, “Huzoor, would you like to try a bright red one with a white and yellow design?”“What kind of red?” Akbar boomed. “Show me!”Raza pointed to Dhani Singh's turban, “That red?”“Hmmm...” Akbar stared thoughtfully at Dhani Singh's moustached face and said, “Let me give it a try.” In a flash, Raza had taken off Dhani Singh's turban, unrolled it and tied it around Akbar's waist. He waited with bated breath while Akbar studied his reflection in the mirror. He noticed Dhani Singh grinning widely – he must have been amused to see the king wearing his turban as a belt!“I like the colour... and a new design too!” Akbar said finally.“Bandhani, huzoor... from the land of the Rajputs,” said Raza promptly.“Aha! Rajput like my queen, Jodh Bai!” Akbar began to smile. “Dhani, pay Rahmat for the angarakhas and patkas. I'll take them all!”“Huzoor,” asked Raza cautiously, “Dhaniji needs a turban. We've taken the one he was wearing.”“Give him a patka!” laughed Akbar. “That boring pale blue one. I am keeping his turban.” FUN FACTS OF HISTORY1. Raza lived during the reign of King Akbar over 400 years ago. Akbar was the greatest king of the Mughal dynasty. He was also a famous warrior. He loved wearing clothes with new designs. He also enjoyed flying kites and eating mangoes!2. Babur, the founder of the Mughal dynasty, was the king of Kabul. He invaded India in 1526 and defeated the Sultan of Delhi, Ibrahim Lodi, at the Battle of Panipat. Akbar was Babur's grandson. He was an equally successful general and never lost a battle during his 49-year rule.3. Two Mughal kings built new cities. Akbar built Fatehpur Sikri near Agra and Shahjahan built Shahjahanabad in Delhi. Fatehpur Sikri lies empty today but Shahjahanabad (present-day Old Delhi) is full of life and people. 4. Shahjahan's famous Peacock Throne was a square flat seat, with slim pillars at each corner covered with precious jewels. The seat had a canopy, which had the figure of a peacock studded with gems on top of it. The emperor sat under the canopy, leaning against silk cushions.5. Many Mughal princesses were highly educated. Gulbadan Begum wrote the biography of her father, Babur. Shahjahan's daughter Jahanara was a poet.6. The Mughal fort had many kitchens. Each kitchen sent food for the king. So when he sat down to eat, he would have as many as thirty dishes to choose from! Lip-smacking Mughlai cusine, which includes yummy dishes like biryani, pulao, kalia and korma, originated in these kitchens.

Dhani knew something exciting was being planned at the ashram, but no one would tell him anything. “Just because I'm nine years old,” thought Dhani glumly. “I'm sure they think I'm stupid. I am not!”Dhani and his parents lived in a very special place. It was Mahatma Gandhi's Sabarmati Ashram near Ahmedabad where people from all over India came to stay. Like Gandhiji, they were all fighting for India's freedom. During their stay at the ashram, they spent their time spinning khadi thread on charkhas, singing bhajans and listening to Gandhiji's lectures.At Sabarmati, everyone had to work – cook and clean, wash clothes, fetch water from the well, milk the cows and goats, and grow vegetables. Even Dhani had a job – he had to take care of Binni, one of the ashram's goats. He quite enjoyed that because Binni was his best friend and he liked talking to her. That morning, as Dhani fed Binni with fresh grass and changed the water in her bowl, he said, “Something's up, Binni! They all sit and talk in Gandhiji's room. They are planning something. I know it!”Binni chewed and nodded as if she understood.Dhani felt hungry. He headed towards the kitchen, with Binni skipping along beside him. His mother was fanning the chulha, filling up the room with smoke.“Amma, is Gandhiji going somewhere?” he asked. His mother coughed in the smoke and said, “They are going on a march.”“March? Where are they going?” Dhani queried.“Somewhere near the sea. Now stop asking questions and go away Dhani!” his mother said impatiently. “Let me finish the cooking first.”Dhani wandered off to the vegetable garden where old Binda was digging up potatoes. “Binda chacha,” Dhani sat beside him, “are you going on the march too?”Binda shook his head. Before he could say anything, Dhani eagerly asked, “Who is marching? Where are they going? What is happening?”Binda stopped digging and said, “I'll answer all your questions, but first tie up that troublesome goat. She's chewing up my spinach.”Dhani dragged Binni away and tied her to the lemon tree nearby. Then Binda told him about the march. Gandhiji and some of the men from the ashram were going to walk through Gujarat to reach the sea at a place called Dandi. They would walk through villages and towns for a whole month. Once they reached Dandi, they would make salt.“Salt?” Dhani sat up and frowned. “Why will they make salt? You can buy it in every shop!”“I know,” Binda laughed. “But Mahatmaji has a plan. You know he always marches to protest against something, right?”“Of course I know. He leads the Satyagraha marches to fight the British government and win freedom for India. But why is he protesting about salt? It's silly!”“It's not silly at all, Dhani! Do you know we all have to pay a tax on salt?”“So what?”“Everyone needs salt... that means, every Indian, even the poorest, has to pay this tax,” explained Binda chacha.“That is really unfair!” Dhani's eyes were hot with anger.“Of course it's unfair. Not only that, Indians are not allowed to make any salt either. Mahatmaji has asked the British to stop the tax, but they have refused. So he has decided to walk to Dandi and make salt from seawater.”“Walking for a month!” Dhani brooded worriedly. “Gandhiji will get really tired. Why don't they take a bus or train to Dandi instead?”“Because, if he goes on this long march and walks all the way to Dandi, the news will spread. There will be pictures in the papers and reports on the radio, and people all over the world will know that we are fighting for our freedom. And that will really embarrass the British.”“Gandhiji is clever, isn't he?” Dhani's eyes were shining.“Ah, that he is!” Binda's eyes crinkled with laughter. “He's even written to the Viceroy and told him what he plans to do! The British have no idea what they are in for!”Later in the morning, Dhani wandered up to the hut where Gandhiji was staying and peered in through a window. Inside, many of the ashram people were talking to Gandhiji. Dhani heard them planning the route along which they would walk to Dandi. He was thrilled to see his father sitting among the people.In the afternoon, when the ashram was quiet,Dhani went looking for his father. He foundhim under a tree, spinning on his charkha.“Pitaji, are you and Amma going on the march to Dandi?” Dhani got straight to the point.“I am going. You and Amma will stay here.”“I am coming with you.”“Don't be silly, Dhani. You can't walk so much.Only the ashram's young men will go.” “I'm nine and I can run faster than you can!”Dhani replied stubbornly. “You can't stop mefrom coming with you.”His father stopped spinning and explainedpatiently, “Only the people who have beenchosen by Mahatmaji will go.”“Fine! I'll talk to him then! I'm sure he'll say yes,” said Dhani and marched off.Gandhiji was a very busy man and it was not easy to catch him alone. But Dhani knew exactly when he would have the time to listen – early every morning when he went for a walk around the ashram.The next morning, as the sun came up, Dhani slipped out of bed and went looking for Gandhiji. He found him in the cowshed checking on all the cows. Then he strolled into the vegetable garden to inspect the peas and cabbage and have a chat with Binda. All the while, Dhani and Binni followed him.Finally, Gandhiji headed back to his hut. He sat down beside his charkha in the verandah and called out to Dhani, “Come here, child!” Dhani ran up, with Binni skipping along.“What's your name beta?”“Dhani, Gandhiji.”“And this is your goat?”“Yes, Gandhiji! This is my friend Binni, who gives the milk you drink every morning.” Dhani smiled proudly and said, “I take care of her.”“Good!” Gandhiji leaned forward. “Now Dhani, tell me why you and Binni have been followingme everywhere this morning?”“I wanted to ask you something,” Dhani begannervously. “Can I come with you to Dandi?”Gandhiji smiled, “You are too small, beta. Dandiis 385 kilometres away and only young men like your father will be able to walk with me.”“But you are not young!” Dhani said. “Won't you feel tired?”“I am a very good walker,” Gandhiji replied.“I am a good walker too.” Dhani was adamant.“Ah yes,” Gandhiji looked thoughtful. “But there is a problem. If you go with me, who will take care of Binni? After walking for so long, I will become weak. When I come back, I'll need to drink lots of milk to become strong again.” “Hmm, you're right, Gandhiji. Binni eats only when I feed her.” Dhani lovingly stroked Binni's head, “And only I know what she likes to eat.”“Exactly! So will you stay in the ashram and take care of Binni for me?”“Yes, Gandhiji, I will,” said Dhani. “And Binni and I will be waiting for you.”“Hmm, you're right, Gandhiji. Binni eats only when I feed her.” Dhani lovingly stroked Binni's head, “And only I know what she likes to eat.”“Exactly! So will you stay in the ashram and take care of Binni for me?”"Yes, Gandhiji, I will,” said Dhani. “And Binni and I will be waiting for you.”Fun facts of History1. In March 1930, Mahatma Gandhi led the march to Dandi to protest against the tax on salt imposed by the British. Gandhi and his followers walked through Gujarat for 24 days. All along the way, they were welcomed with flowers and songs. Newspapers across the world carried reports about the march.2. At Dandi, Gandhi and his followers collected salt from the seashore and were arrested. The arrest sparked off the Non-cooperation Movement, and people all over India boycotted schools, colleges and offices.3. There were 78 volunteers who accompanied Gandhi on the march. They covered a distance of 385 kilometres.4. The march began on 12 March and ended on 5 April 1930. The youngest marcher was 16 years old.5. The year 2005 marks the 75th anniversary of the Dandi March.

MelaShobhini asked Nani, “Shall we go to the mela?”From a distance they could see the big giant wheel. It turned slowly and then faster and faster. “Shall we take a ride on the giant wheel?” Shobhini said to Nani.The wheel began to move slowly. Then it began to go faster and faster. Shobhini closed her eyes tightly. She was not really scared but felt better when she held on to Nani's hand. She would open her eyes a little from time to time to see where they were. Shobhini noticed that Nani did not shut her eyes. Instead she was laughing and waving to the people below.When the ride was over, Shobhini and Nani wandered around in the mela. Shobhini bought a little horn. She tooted so hard that a dog jumped up and ran away. Nani bought Shobhini a gas balloon. When they came home, Shobhini tied a small paper basket to the balloon and put some ants in the basket. Then she let go of the string. The balloon floated high above the house, beyond the field, past the mela and went off far, far away.### Shobhini Combs Nani's HairNani had just washed her hair. Her hair was long, soft and white and it was shining in the sunshine. “Nani, can I comb your hair for you?” asked Shobhini. “I will do it carefully. I won't hurt you at all.”Shobhini combed Nani's hair carefully. She made a parting in the middle and divided her hair into two parts. With each portion she made a pony tail on either side of Nani's head. Not happy with the pony tails, she made them into two long plaits.Quickly Shobhini found a big yellow flower. She stuck the flower in one of Nani's plaits. A red and orange butterfly came and sat down on Nani's hair. Right next to the big yellow flower. Shobhini ran to bring a mirror.She showed Nani the two long plaits, the big yellow flower and the colourful butterfly. ### Jungle“Shall we go to the jungle?” Shobhini asked Nani. “There are wild animals there. You won't be scared, I hope?”Shobhini and Nani reached the jungle. First they saw a rabbit. He was lost and was looking for his mother. His eyes were full of tears. Shobhini and Nani helped him find his mother.Elephants were bathing in the river. They filled water in their trunks and sprayed it like a fountain over each other. It looked like a lot of fun.One monkey was eating a mango on a tree. Shobhini teased the monkey and made a face at him. The monkey was furious. He took a mango and threw it at Shobhini. Nani quickly put her hand out and swiftly caught the mango before it could hit Shobhini. It was a very good catch.“Wow! Nani!!” said Shobhini. “I did not know that you could play cricket!” RainIt was raining. Sometimes it was windy and the rain came pouring down hard and loud. Sometimes the rain was soft.Shobhini asked Nani, “Can I go out and play in the rain? I want to get wet.”“Be careful of the lightning,” replied Nani.Shobhini's dog Pillu was under the chair. When he saw Shobhini with an umbrella, he came out from under the chair. Pillu licked Shobhini's hand and wagged his tail.“All right,” said Shobhini “You can come too.”Shobhini walked ahead. Pillu was just behind her. As they reached the end of the verandah, there was a sudden gust of wind. Shobhini's umbrella flew out of her hand and out onto the grass. There was a streak of lightning in the sky. Shobhini stopped. A few seconds later, there was a very loud clap of thunder. Pillu ran back to the house and hid under the chair. Shobhini ran back and hid in Nani's lap.WoolNani was sitting in the sun. She was rolling wool into a ball. “Can I help you?” asked Shobhini.Shobhini looked for the end of the wool. She started rolling it into a ball like Nani was doing. Soon the wool became a big ball. When it was too big, it slipped out of Shobhini's hand and jumped up in the air.Many swans were flying overhead. One of them caught the ball of wool. Shobhini looked up and saw a long string of red wool hanging from the sky. Shobhini clapped her hands when she saw this sight. The other end of the wool slipped out of her hands.When the swan heard the clap he looked down. He could see Shobhini on the ground but she looked very small from so high up. As he looked, the ball of wool slipped out of his mouth. Shobhini ran to where the wool fell from the sky. She quickly rolled up all the wool and gave the ball to Nani.The RiverIt was a hot summer day. “Nani, will you come with me to the river to bathe?” asked Shobhini.The river was quite far from the house. Nani and Shobhini sat in a tonga and reached the riverbank. Many people were bathing on the ghats. The water near the banks did not flow very fast. Shobhini had brought many paper boats with her. One of her boats quickly floated away very far. Nani talked to a boatman. Shobhini and Nani sat in the boat and went quite far.The boatman said, “The water is very deep here. If you put one elephant on top of another, they would both sink.”‘Wow! One elephant on top of another,' thought Shobhini, entranced. A goldfish leapt out of the water. It touched Shobhini's hand. Shobhini was delighted. The boatman said, “Come again, Shobhini.”“You know me?” asked Shobhini surprised.“Yes, I know your mother too,” said the boatman, “When she was little, I used to take her out on this boat.”Nani smiled at Shobhini. The Moon“Let us go to the moon today,” said Shobhini to Nani. She took Nani's special walking stick – the one that had a head of silver.First Shobhini climbed on the stick. “Get on carefully, Nani,” said Shobhini. “There is nothing to be scared of.” The stick zoomed into the air with Shobhini sitting on the stick and Nani behind her. They flew into the sky, above all the birds and the clouds. Soon they were like tiny dots in the sky. We are all waiting for them to come back...

In the old days there were twopeople, Dima and Owl.Owl owned the sun, water and fire.Dima did not have any of thesethings and lived in darkness with hisfamily. Dima tried to make a garden, buthe could not grow vegetablesbecause there was no sun.Everybody suffered because therewas no sun.When they hunted animals to eat,they hung the meat in the trees todry, but it rotted because there wasno sun. One day, Dima decided to visit Owl.When they served food, Dimawondered why Owl's food tasted sogood. He wondered if it wasbecause the food grew in the sunand it was cooked in fire.Secretly, Dima made a plan. Hedecided to dance. He wantedeveryone at Owl's place to gatheraround him and see him dance. Hewas a good dancer. Owl and hisfamily admired the beautifuldancing. When it grew dark, Owl decided tofetch the sun from his house so thathe could still watch Dima's dancing.Owl kept the sun in an animal skinbag inside his hut. He carried thesun out from his house and held ithigh up above his shoulders.Now it was light. Everyone couldsee far into the distance. Sooneveryone was dancing in the light ofthe sun. Dima crept closer to the sun whilehe was dancing. Owl held on to thesun but after a while he forgotabout it because he enjoyed thedancing so much. He saw howbeautifully Dima danced. He toowanted to dance like this. Suddenly, Dima took his fightingstick and hit the sun into the airlike a ball. The sun travelled so farthat it remained forever in the sky.It gave everyone light all day. Dima ran away so fast that Owlcould not find him.He stayed far away for a long time.After a while, he disguised himselfand went back to Owl's place.The children recognised him andsaid:"There is the man who stole oursun!"The adults did not agree with thechildren and said,"No, this is not the man who stoleour sun." They saw that this man was an olddancer. He wore a lot of beadsaround his body. They were magicdancing beads and they madepeople dance.It was not long before everyone wasdancing. They danced the wholeafternoon, until the sun began toset. It became too dark to see themagic dancer. Owl said to his wife, "Go and look inmy bag and fetch the moon."Owl held the moon high above hisshoulders and it lit up the darknessfor all to see the dance. While theywere dancing, Dima moved closerand closer to the moon, for he hada plan. He took his fighting stick and hit themoon high up into the air. Onceagain, he ran away from Owl. Thistime he stayed away for a very longtime, until Owl's family forgot allabout him. Dima disguised himself again andreturned to Owl's place.This time he wanted Owl's fire. Owlhad the firesticks hanging aroundhis neck.Dima joined Owl under a tree andthe two men started playing an oldclapping game called gi. They clapped and clapped and asthey clapped some more, Owl'sfiresticks started jumping aroundhis chest to the rhythm of theclapping. Clap-clap, clap-clap.Dima tried to grab the firesticks, butOwl threw them over his neck sothat they hung across his back.They clapped the whole day long. The rhythm of the clappingmade Owl forget all about the firesticks.When they swung around onto his chest once more, Dima grabbedthe firesticks and ran away.Owl and his family ran after Dima, but he made a clever plan. Hehad a bag full of thorns and threw them onto the ground behindhim. This stopped Owl and his family from chasing him. They couldnot cross the thorns on the path. Dima could not wait to make fire.He rubbed and rubbed the sticks.He blew and blew the ember in alittle dry grass until a tiny flameappeared. The fire grew and lit thewhole veld and each time theflames reached a tree, Dima said,"From now on people will be able tomake a fire with each tree onearth." A long time passed. When Dimafinally returned to Owl's place, hefound no one but a little boy playingwith wooden animals.Dima asked the boy to show himwhere they kept their water. Theboy led him to the place of water.Dima saw the big djaba, the hugeclay pot in which the family storedwater.Dima pretended to leave for his home, but he secretly turnedround to the place of water. He turned the huge pot over so thatthe water started flowing on the ground.Dima quickly jumped over the flowing water to the other side.Then he was safely across the river of water where Owl could notfind him. This is why the whole earth hasrivers full of water today.This is why we have the sun, moonand fire, because of the magicianDima. Story notesIn 2003, Katunga Carimbwe told this version of the Dima and Owlorigin story to Titu Mangumbu and Marlene Winberg in theNorthern Cape Province of South Africa while he was busy paintingon a canvas. Mangumbu, Mahongo and Winberg translated it andretold the story in this written version with as few alterations aspossible. His elders told the story to him during his childhood inMavinga, Angola, where he was born in 1958.Most of the episodes in the Dima and Owl myth have a widedistribution in the extensive area of southern Africa and theKalahari whose original inhabitants speak !Xun and other closelyrelated languages, although the names and identities of thetrickster, Dima, and his adversary change from area to area.The "clapping game" mentioned in our version, Dima and Owl, isstill current among the !xun, the Nharo, and possibly othercommunities of Kalahari San. This story depicts Dima as a culturehero and transformer of the primeval world into the present world.He achieves this with words, "From now on people will be able tomake a fire with each tree on earth."The Manyeka Arts Trust holds a !Xun audio telling of this story byMeneputo Mnaunga Maneka in archive.

Khajuria village was suffering from Ramlila fever. It was nothing new, as Kallu said, they got it every year. The fever usually started a month before Dussehra. As the low, dark grey monsoon clouds drifted away and the sky turned a glittering blue, there were festivities in the air and everyone began talking about Masterji and the Ramlila.Everywhere in the village, at Dharampal's chai shop, in the vegetable fields, at the grocery store, in Moti Dadi's courtyard and at the tube-well, there was a single question being asked.“What is Masterji planning to do this year?”Kallu often said admiringly, “Masterji is the producer, director, scriptwriter and music composer of Ramlila and only he knows what we will see this year.” Masterji was the head of the village school and the Khajuria Ramlila Party that put up a fantastic show every year. Of course, they couldn't do the whole Ramayana because that was a very long story, and Khajuria did not have enough actors. So Masterji had written the dialogues of some of the most important scenes, and he would pick a few of them to enact for a week before Dussehra. So Khajuria never knew which scenes they would see.A tent was put up in a corner of the field where Badri, the milkman kept his buffaloes. A stage was built with a bunch of wobbly folding tables they got from Jai Bhagwan's Tent House. The audience sat on the ground on durries and nowadays, as the village had electricity, they had both gas lamps and electric bulbs to light up the stage.From the first day, Kallu and his gang were hanging around the school building where rehearsals were held, hoping Masterji would give them something to do. In the gang were Kallu, his sister Munia, brother Shabbo and his best friend Damu and his sister Saru. Day after day, they sat and watched the rehearsals, and by the end they knew most of the dialogues by heart.Every year, Masterji would select scenes like the Sita swayamvar with Ram breaking the giant bow; then Kaikeyi and Manthara scheming to send Ram into exile and Dasaratha weeping and dying. Munia's favourite scene was of Laxman cutting off Surpanakha's nose and Ravan kidnapping Sita. Then there was Hanuman setting fire to Lanka, and finally the fantastic battle scenes with Ravan, Kumbhakarna and Meghnad fighting Ram, Laxman, Hanuman and their monkey army. This year, their begging had paid off and Masterji had let Kallu, Damu and Shabbo play monkeys in the vanar sena. They were acting in the final battle scene and had to wear shorts, have monkey face make-up and long tails. It was amazing fun as they jumped about waving tin maces and swords. It made the girls, Munia and Saru very envious.“It's sooo silly!” Saru said grimly as they headed for the school one morning. “Why can't girls act in the Ramlila?”“Did you see ‘Sita' last night?” Munia asked. “That boy studies in Kallu Bhaiya's class and he's starting to get a moustache...”“And his voice kept cracking,” Saru giggled. “I really think Billo Chachi would be just perfect as Sita.”“Yes she would! Now if her husband Dharam Chacha can play Ram, why can't she be Sita?”“She even asked Masterji, but he said that the Khajuria panchayat would stop the Ramlila if he took real women. Dhat!” Saru shook her head in disgust.“Anyway, tonight's Badri Bhaiya's big scene!” Munia gave a small skip of happiness. “I can't wait!”For Kallu and his gang, the best actor in the show was Badri, the mad buffalo man who always played Hanuman. He was short and stocky, had a head of unruly hair, a bushy moustache, big round eyes and a booming voice. So when he was on stage, strutting about yelling out his lines, even Ram and Laxman faded into the background.According to Kallu and his gang, the scene where Hanuman exchanges insults with Ravan and then sets Lanka on fire was an absolute super-hit scene. Masterji had written such fantastic dialogues for Ravan and Hanuman that the audience was totally hypnotized and listened to every word in breathless silence.That evening, the gang was among the earliest to arrive at the tent. Badri's buffaloes were tied nearby and according to Damu, they had to do ‘high jumps' over the pats of buffalo dung.“Second row from the front, middle of the row. Perfect!” said Shabbo, settling down on the durrie with a happy sigh.“Well, tomorrow we won't need the seats,” said Kallu, giving Munia and Saru a sneaky grin. “We boys will be on stage.”“Hah!” Munia shook her curly head. “All you do is jump around like idiots, and none of you have a single line to say.”“And Shabbo will be killed by Meghnad and just lie there flat on his back, like a log of wood,” added Saru with a giggle.“Do you know it takes real acting to play dead?” Shabbo asked hotly. “I have to breathe very, very slowly and keep my eyes shut tight!”“You'll get the award for the best dead monkey in Khajuria!” Damu grinned. As the sun set, the tent began to fill up.Backstage was a hive of activity, with everyone putting on their costumes and slapping on make-up. Dharampal was free tonight, as Ram did not appear in the scene, so he was busy doing the Hanuman make-up on Badri's face.“I wish you would shave off your moustache Badri,” he said. “It looks really odd. Hanuman on TV and films is always clean-shaven.”“Colour it brown and no one will know,” growled Badri.“I am NOT shaving it! FORGET IT!!” Then he held the sheets of dialogue before his face, squinted and grumbled, “Why does Masterji keep changing the dialogues every year?”“He's an artist and all artists are crazy anyway. This year in the Bharat milap scene, he wanted Ram and Bharat to sing a song,” said Dharampal.“A song?” repeated Badri.“Yes. It went - bhai bhai ka pyar amar rahe... something... something...” Dharampal laughed.“But you can't sing!” said Badri.“Exactly! And neither can Lattu, who's playing Bharat! He tried for two days to make us sing and then gave up. Thank God!” said Dharampal.Suddenly, Badri sat up and yelled at the top of his voice, making Dharampal jump, “Masterji! Masterji!”“Kya hua?” Masterji came running in a panic.“You wrote a song for Ram but not for Hanuman? And I can sing!” said Badri.“Arrey Badri!” Masterji stuffed a paan into his mouth, “Hanuman does not sing.”“And what will you sing anyway?” asked Dharampal carefully painting Badri's nose a bright red.“Hanuman-Ravan ki dushmani amar rahe?”“Heh... heh... ho... ho...” Masterji walked away laughing, spraying paan juice in the air.As Dharampal began to attach the tail to Badri's bright yellow shorts, nobody noticed the thoughtful look on Badri-Hanuman's brown face... An hour later, the curtains were dragged away to reveal Ravan's royal durbar in Lanka, and it looked really gorgeous with carpets, curtains and thrones, all supplied by Jai Bhagwan's tent house. Jai Bhagwan was playing Kumbhakarna because he was the fattest man in the village.The scene was going beautifully and the audience was absorbed in the action. Ravan was being played by Chhotey Lal, the village wrestler and Mandodari by Narain, who was in class ten, wearing a pink and gold sari.Ravan looked really threatening with his rippling muscles, bushy eyebrows, curling moustache and big eyes. The only problem was that Chhotey wasn't very good at remembering the dialogues.“Masterji really struggled to make Chhotey remember his lines,” Damu whispered. “He mixes up everything.”“And then Masterji solved the problem!” Kallu grinned.The others turned to look at him, “How?”“Watch Narain's lips, he's prompting Chhotey.Masterji made him learn the lines of both Mandodari and Ravan!” whispered Kallu.“Sooo clever!” breathed Munia in admiration.“Here he comes!” said Saru with an excited wriggle as Hanuman was dragged on to the stage by the rakshasas. They leaned forward, eyes glued to Hanuman, who was all tied up in thick ropes but stood defiantly tall, glaring angrily at Ravan.“Who is this?” Mandodari whispered to Chhotey, prompting away.“Umm...” Ravan bent his head towards her, listened and then said loudly, “Who is this?”A rakshasa stepped forward, “We caught him in the Ashokavan, Maharaj! He was talking to Devi Sita.”“What...” prompted Mandodari.“WHAT!” shouted Ravan springing up, suddenly remembering the rest of his lines, “How did he get inside? What was he doing there?” and he waved his arms in rage.Munia gave a soft giggle, and then as other people spotted Ravan's face, the rest of the audience also began to laugh. As he was waving his arms, Ravan had dislodged one end of his false moustache, and now it was dangling over his lips like a black earthworm.From where he sat, Kallu could see Masterji in the wings frantically waving his arms and pointing to Ravan's face. About to start his lines, Hanuman turned to look at the audience in surprise. This was a serious scene. What was making them laugh?“Kya hua?” he asked, peering into the dark. “Why are you laughing?”“Ravan's moustache is falling off, Badri Bhaiya!” someone kindly informed him from the back.“Oh ho! Sorry!” Ravan jumped nervously and quickly fixed the moustache back in place, and then turned a sweaty face towards Mandodari, “What do I say next?” In his panic he forgot to whisper, and everyone began to laugh again.In the wings, Masterji was chewing his paan faster and faster...“Tell me who you are... you thieving monkey!” Mandodari prompted.“What?” Ravan was still a bit flustered. “Theek! Tell me who you are... you thieving monkey!” And he finally turned to address Hanuman, “Where have you come from?”“Here it comes!” Shabbo leaned forward eagerly, “My favourite dialogue.”Masterji had written some of the important dialogues in rhyme, and the bit where Hanuman introduces himself to Ravan was the best poetry Shabbo had ever heard. And Badri's acting was always quite superb!He would stand tall, thump his chest and ask angrily, “Thieving monkey? Who are you to call me that? Do you know who I am?” and then turning to face the audience, he would launch into the poem that Shabbo knew by heart...Main hooon Ramji ka chelaMain hoon Hanuman albelaTu hai Ravan balwaanKar du tujhko pareshanThen he would pause dramatically, thump his chest again and say in ringing tones...Main hoon pavan putra Hanumaaan!As they waited breathlessly, Hanuman glared at Ravan and shouted, “Do you know who I am?” He turned to face the audience, cleared his throat and suddenly Badri began to sing!Main hoooon Ramjiii kaaa chelaaa...“He's SINGING?” Saru's eyes were wide with shock. Main hoon... Hanumaaan... albelaaa... Hanuman sang on...“He's good!” Kallu was laughing in delight. “Badri Bhaiya can really sing.”In the wings, Masterji was standing absolutely still, as if struck by lightning. He was staring at his star actor as Badri sang away, and in shock he had forgotten to chew his paan.Badri sang, eyes raised to the roof and one arm raised like a filmi hero. His tune had a nice rhythm, and the audience began to clap, and even Narain forgot he was on stage and joined in. One rakshasa was swaying his hips in a really funny dance. Badri began to smile, and with a happy shake of his head, he decided to sing the whole song once again!As he got to the last line, he waved to the crowd to join in and then sang out, Main hoon pavan putra...And the audience joined in a loud shout, Hanumaaaan!From the field outside, Badri's loyal buffaloes joined in the chorus, “Mooo! Moooooo!”As they headed for home tiredly, Kallu declared with a huge, happy sigh, “What a super-hit Ramlila!”

One day old Mrs. Chang in the village got a letter. It was from her son Chen, who lived far away in Beijing. She could not read, so she waited in front of her house for someone to come by who could read out the letter to her. After some time, Warrior Wen came by, swinging his exquisitely carved staff. Old Mrs. Chang stopped him and said, “O brave warrior, could you do me a favour and read out this letter from my son to me?” Warrior Wen immediately agreed. He took the letter from the old lady and opened it. Mrs. Chang sat down in eager anticipation of news from her dear son. But one look at the letter and Warrior Wen began to wail loudly.“What is it, Warrior Wen? What is it? Tell me, is something wrong with my son?” asked old Mrs. Chang anxiously. But Warrior Wen didn't say a word – he only looked up at her and began to wail even louder than before. Poor Mrs. Chang was sure that something dreadful had happened to her son. Tears welled up in her eyes and she began wailing loudly too. Plish... plosh... plish... plosh... the tears rolled down the cheeks of the brave warrior and the old lady.Plish... plosh...plish...plosh...the tears rolled down the cheeks of the brave warrior and the old lady. A little later, Peddler Peng came by. And what do you think he did when he saw the old lady and the warrior wailing in unison? Well, he sat down with them and began crying too! What a racket they created!The three wailers sobbibng their hearts out... Waaaaaaaa... baaaaaaaawwww...... boooooooo....... Hoooooooo.......Hearing the cacophonic cries, Master Ming, whose school was just around the corner from Mrs. Chang's house, came rushing out. Several curious kids followed suit – some giggling, some chattering, some whispering, but all delighted that their class had been interrupted!When Master Ming saw the weeping chorus, he ran up to them worriedly. What could have gone so terribly wrong, he wondered, as he sprinted down the road.“Booooooooo...... hoooooooooooo.... Waaaaaaaaaaaa.....” came the response.Master Ming was beginning to lose his patience. “Out with it you howling hyenas!” he thundered. Taken aback by his roar that was even louder than their waaaaaa...ils, Peddler Peng was the first to answer. “Sniff... sob... Just a year ago,” he said, and wiped his running nose, “I had made a hundred earthen pots to be sold in the market. But as I was on my way, the donkey that was carrying them got frightened by his own shadow and started to bray loudly!And my pots, they all came tumbling down one by one and broke into a million pieces. Not even one beautiful pot was left unbroken. I was so upset. I wanted to cry and cry and cry then, but I couldn't do it because I had to immediately think up ways to make up for my losses. So I postponed it.Today, when I saw the two of them crying, I was reminded of that heartbreaking episode and decided to cry for my precious, pretty pots. Waaaaaa....” Before Master Ming could react, Mrs. Chang spoke. “I got a letter from my son in Beijing this morning. I don't know how to read, so I asked Warrior Wen to read it out for me. But he began crying as soon as he opened the letter. Something terrible must have happened to my son! Something awful, horrible, unimaginable... O my poor Chen, poor, poor Chen.... Booo.... Hoooo.....”Even as an exasperated Master Ming consoled old Mrs. Chang, Warrior Wen bravely fought back his tears and opened his mouth. “To tell you the truth, Master, I didn't read my books very well when I was in school. I never paid any attention to my teachers and to my lessons, so I still don't know how to read. I am so ashamed of myself! Bawwwwww..........” he wailed.Master Ming was dumbstruck! LANTERN IN A JIFFY!Do you know that paper was invented in china, where this story comes from? The Chinese are famous for their paper crafts, which they use as decorations at home. Want to your hand at a paper craft too? Well, here's a simple, colourful lantern that you can make with just paper, scissors and glue. Make as many of them as you wish and brighten up your home!YOU NEED:A. 2 sheets of coloured paper (21 cm x 29 cm each)B. Scissors C. Glue HOW TO MAKE THE PAPER LANTERN:1. Fold the paper in half lengthwise.2. With the scissors, make slits along the folded edge as shown.3. Unfold the paper.4. Place the paper lengthwise. Lift the right edge and place it over the left. 5. Stick the edges together to form a circle.6. Now cut a strip of paper and stick it on the top as shown. Your paper lantern is almost ready.7. Cut a few more strips and stick them along the lower edge of the lantern as shown.Your paper lantern is ready to be hung in your home!

Tok-tok tok-tok!Raja Petuchand of Sonapur buried his head under the pillow. The butter chicken he had enjoyed a little too much last night was already giving him trouble. Now this awful noise! “Do you have to get the palace work done at this hour?” he grumbled to queen Suruchi. But she was snoring peacefully next to him in the king-sized bed, dreaming of the next palace festival.Tok-tok... tok-tok! “What nonsense!” said Petuchand. “I am the king and I forbid this tok, tok sound!”He got up and opened the door, adjusting the royal robes around his ample stomach. The sentries were looking around nervously. “What is this commotion?” the king asked his bodyguards angrily.“No idea, sire,” said the guards, shaking a little bit. “We've been searching for the person making the noise. But we have not found anything.”“Idiots,” the king grumbled under his breath. “If you don't find out what it is in the next five minutes, I'm firing all of you,” he shouted.Tok-tok... tok-tok! Immediately the guards called Ranveer Singh, the captain of the army. He was six feet tall and three feet wide and his long curling mustache frightened everybody. “Sir, please help us find what is making this tok-tok sound or we will all lose our jobs,” they pleaded with him.“Fools!” Ranveer Singh muttered. He collected a platoon of soldiers.Tok-tok... tok-tok!“Ready, men? Go find this intruder right now!” he ordered. The men marched all around the palace searching, searching, searching. They looked into all the windows, scaring the sleeping children. They opened all the boxes and tapped all the walls, creating so much noise themselves that nobody in the palace got any sleep that night. Tok-tok tok-tok! The next morning the king overslept and was late to the durbar. His first case was about two men who said they owned the same cow.“It's mine,” said the first man.“No, I've been milking her for two years,” said the other. “Oh, really? I've been offering sweets made from her milk to the goddess for the last three years,” said the first.“My head hurts,” said the king to his prime minister, Chintamani. “And last night's butter chicken is still squawking in my stomach. Just cut the cow in two and give half to each. I want them to stop complaining.”“Uh sire, it is a cow,” whispered Chintamani. “Cutting it in two might not be a good idea.”One of his jobs was to make sure the king did not issue any crazy orders, which Petuchand was quite capable of doing when he was hungry or tired. The worry had made Chintamani bald before his time. “Of course,” said the king, slapping his forehead. “Well, how am I supposed to be a just and wise king when I haven't slept all night?”Raja Petuchand told Chintamani about the tok-tok sound.“I have just the person to help,” said the minister with a smile of relief. That night he bought Pasupati the zoo-keeper to the palace after everyone had gone to bed.Tok-tok tok-tok!When the zoo-keeper heard the sound he rushed home and brought back a cage and a bowl of worms. Pasupati then had the royal carpenter cut a hole in the wall nearest the sound. He put the bowl of worms near the hole. Everybody stepped back and waited silently. A small red and brown bird with a long yellow beak stepped out of the hole and jumped into the bowl.Swoosh! The bird was in the cage. The king was amazed.“Such a tiny bird and such a loud noise! Thank you everyone. You have done a great service to the country.”The next morning the king reached the durbar bright and early. Pasupati the zoo-keeper was standing in front of him.“Sire, I cannot keep the bird.” “What happened?” asked the king.“The tok-tok noise kept all the animals in the zoo awake. They are all sleeping now and the children visiting the zoo are very disappointed.”“Hmmm,” said the king. He wondered if the bird would make a good cutlet.“No sir, we cannot kill the bird,” said Chintamani firmly. He was good at guessing the king's thoughts.“It is very rare and must be considered a lucky bird.” “Then what do we do?” asked the king. “If the animals cannot bear the noise then my citizens certainly cannot. And we cannot have a country full of sleepless people.”Another minister stepped forward bravely. “Sire, I would be willing to keep the bird. I have a newborn baby boy and his crying keeps us up at night anyway.”“No, no, we need to find a better place,” said Chintamani. “Aha!” he exclaimed suddenly. “We need to find a place for the tok-tok bird where nobody must sleep at night. I have the perfect plan, sire!” he said. And that is how the tok-tok bird ended far away from the palace and the towns of Sonapur, giving company to the border patrol. It kept the soldiers awake every night and did its job so well that it became the official bird of the country. The kingdom's enemies could never get by the alert Sonapur soldiers and grumbled that the country should change its name to Jaagpur instead.

This play is based on a modern form of theatre called Body Theatre. The beauty of this form is that it can be done impromptu, at any place, with as many or as few actors as convenient, with or without props. You will find suggestions on how to perform this play at the end of the book.And now the play!The Boy and the DrumNarrator/s (stepping out to one corner of the stage): A poor woman had a son. She worked hard as a gardener in wealthy houses in their town. They gave her some grain in return.One child mimes the mother, while other children form groups of the well-to-do families. The mother goes to each group and mimes gardening for these groups. Having created this 30-second scene, all the groups, including the mother freeze in their positions.Narrator: But she felt bad because she could never afford to buy nice clothes or lovely toys for her son.A young boy comes running through the chorus, singing a song and playing mime cricket. He freezes with a pose at the centre of the stage.Narrator: The little lad was bright and cheerful. Not having any toys or nice clothes did not bother him. After a hard day's work, the mother was going to the market to sell the grain she had received.The mother steps towards the boy and the rest of the frozen actors go back to the chorus.Narrator: She asked her son:Mother: What can I get for you from the market, little one? Narrator: Now the boy was fascinated with the sound of a drum. So he said:Boy: A drum, mother, I would love to have a drum to play with.During the following narration, the boy continues to be frozen in his position while the mother circles the stage. She meets one actor who steps out of the chorus as the merchant to whom she sells the grain, another from whom she buys flour, and on the way she picks up a piece of wood, and goes back to the boy.Narrator: The mother knew she would never have enough money to buy a drum for her son. She went to the market, sold her grain and bought some gram flour and some salt. While returning home, she felt sad that she would have to face him empty-handed. So when she saw a nice piece of wood on the road, she picked it up and brought it home.The son did not know what to do with the piece of wood. Yet he happily carried it with him when he went out to play. A happy song sprang to his lips and he went along singing it:Boy moves around the stage while chorus watches him.Boy: Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee TotTum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot!I asked for a drum and look what I got,A lovely piece of wood!I asked for a drum and look what I got,I think my luck is good!Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee TotTum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot! Towards the end of the song, an old man emerges from the chorus. He mimes trying to light his stove. As he coughs, the entire chorus coughs, thus amplifying the effect of his condition.Narrator: And as he went skipping along on his way, he came across an old man. The old man was trying to light his stove using some cow-dung cakes. The fire was not catching and there was smoke all around. The smoke made the man's eyes water and he was coughing. The little boy ran up to him and said:Boy: What is the matter Grandpa? Can I help you in any way?Old Man: Ah! Little one, I am trying to cook some food, but I am unable to start a fire. For you see,My fire will just not startI need to cook. Oh! Take a lookMy fire will never start! Can somebody start this fire?My eyes are red, my arms are tired.I need to eat, I need some food.Oh! For a dry piece of wood!Boy: Here, Grandpa, you can use my piece of wood to start your fire.The following actions are mimed as the narrator speaks.Narrator: The old man was very pleased. He lit his fire, made some bread and gave a piece to the boy.The old man steps back into the chorus.The boy skipped along singing his song:Boy: La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- LaLa-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La!My piece of wood got me some food.A lovely piece of bread.My piece of wood is not a drum, but itGot me bread.A lovely piece of bread.La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- LaLa-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La!Narrator: The boy walked on till he came upon a potter's wife. She had her baby in her arms. The baby was wailing and flailing her arms.As before, the potter's wife emerges from the chorus, as if with a baby in her arms. While the mother tries to pacify the baby, the chorus hums a lullaby softly. This lullaby can be a regional song.The boy said:Boy: Dear lady, why is your daughter crying?Potter's Wife: My little one is hungry. She has not had anything to eat since morning. I cannot give her anything as there is nothing in the house. I wish I had some bread to give her.Narrator: The kind hearted boy gave the lady his bread. She gave the bread to her child who ate it eagerly and stopped crying. She was so pleased with the boy that she gave him a large pot.The above actions are mimed as the narrator voices the lines. After the action, the woman with the baby goes back to the chorus while the boy continues, carrying his pot.The boy went along humming his funny song:Boy: Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee TotTum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot!I gave my bread away andLook what I got!I gave my bread away andGot a lovely pot!Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee TotTum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot! Narrator: The little boy skipped along until he came upon a strange scene at the river bank.The chorus can move their hands all together, symbolizing the flowing river. The washerman and his wife emerge from the chorus, arguing in mime. Their actions are exaggerated but their voices are not heard.A washerman was quarreling loudly with his wife. The boy stopped and asked:Boy: Dear Sir, what is the matter? Why are you quarreling with your wife?Narrator: The washerman said:Washerman: You see, son, it was like this,I gave her a pot, I gave her a pot.And what did she do?I gave her a pot, it cost a lot.She went and broke it too! She broke the pot, the last of my lot,And now I feel so sore!I gave her the pot, the pot she broke.The pot I need to boil my clothes.Without the pot, my clothes will rot.Oh, they will remain soiled!So you see, I have nothing to boil my clothes in before I wash them. And because of her, my trade will suffer.Boy: Dear Sir, don't quarrel with your wife. Please take this pot of mine and use it.Narrator: The washerman was very happy with the pot. He was so pleased with the boy's good nature that he gave him a nice coat in return.The entire chorus praises the coat, ‘Wah, what a nice coat! Look at the colour! Seems very cozy! So soft and warm!' The washerman and his wife make their way back to the chorus. The boy ran along singing his funny song.Boy: As I walked along,With my pot in hand, I met a washerman. Who gave me this coat so grand!Oh so funny indeed!People looking for things,And I have what they need!Narrator: The boy walked on, all the while admiring his grand coat. He soon came to a bridge, and there he was alarmed by what he saw.For the following narration, the chorus makes the sound of a cold wind blowing. A man emerges from the chorus, shivering. He sits down, curled into a ball.A man was shivering in the cold and he was not even wearing a shirt. He seemed to be hurt and was moaning in pain. The boy was very concerned and ran up to the man and said:Boy: You seem to be bleeding,You seem to be hurt! I'll try and get you some help. You also need a coat.Narrator: The boy asked the man how he came to be in such a sorry state.The man said:During the following lines, the action is mimed. A group of actors emerges. They chase another actor (playing the man), corner him, and rob him.Man: I was riding my horse in a hurry.I was riding my horse to the city. A crowd of thieves, they came and GOT me! They got me down, they got me out.They took my purse, got all my money.I tried to put up a good fight.But they beat me up, they beat me bad.They left me in pain, they left me hurt.They took it all, even my shirt!As the song ends the acting-robber group goes back to the chorus.Narrator: The boy said:Boy: Your need is greater than mine. Please take this coat. It will help you keep warm.Narrator: The man was touched by the little lad's kindness. He thanked the boy profusely and presented him with the big fine horse he was riding.The robbed man goes into the chorus, while the entire chorus mimes the riding of the horse with the sounds. A drum can accompany the rhythm. The chorus mimes the riding on the spot, while the boy rides his horse across the stage.The boy was very happy and led the horse along, singing his song.Boy: Oh so funny indeed!People looking for things,And I have what they need!A man needs a shirt,But all he has is a big fine horse!I gave him my coat, what did I get?His big fine horse, of course!The "horsing" of both the boy and chorus stops. Another group emerges from the chorus. These include the bridegroom, his relatives, and the drummers of the party. Narrator: As he was walking along with his horse, he came upon a large party of gaily dressed people. They were part of a big wedding party with the bridegroom, and musicians. They seemed ready to go in a wedding procession, but all of them were sitting under a tree with long faces.At this point, both the groom's party and the remaining chorus actors sing a popular wedding song, but in a slow and sad-sounding manner.The boy stopped and asked them what made them look so depressed. The groom's father said:Groom's father: You see, son, it's like this. We are all set to go in the wedding procession.But we need a horse for the groom. The man who was supposed to bring it hasn't turned up, the auspicious hour is almost gone.Narrator: And the groom himself stepped up to the boy and said:Groom: I am the groom.Waiting to see my bride,But I'm stuck in here Just hoping for a ride!I just can't go there on my feet.My horse is late and so is the hour.My guests are all waiting to eat.I'll miss my wedding for sure!So you see, what I need right now is a horse! I need a horse! A really quick horse!Chorus: He needs a horse, he needs a horse! He needs a really fast horse! Narrator: And so the boy, being helpful as ever, offered his horse to the groom. The groom was very happy and he asked the boy what he could give him in exchange for his horse.The boy looked around among the musicians and quickly spotted the drummer.He said:Boy: A stitch in time they say saves nine. And what indeed did save the day, Was this splendid horse of mine!All I want from you isThat fine little drum that you play!Oh, make my dreams come true!Please make my dream come true!The drummer steps forward with his drum, and hands it over to the boy during the following lines. Narrator: The groom requested the drummer to hand over the drum to the boy. The drummer knew he would easily get enough money to buy himself a brand new drum. He willingly gave his drum away.The groom's actors and everyone else return to the main body of the chorus. All sing the wedding song, but now it is happy and up-tempo.Narrator: The boy rushed home singing his song and playing his new drum. He could not wait to tell his mother how she had helped him to get his drum.The boy and the mother meet at the centre of the stage.Boy: My piece of wood did a lot of good!It got me bread as food.My piece of bread lasted not,But gave me a lovely pot.My pot got me a lovely coat.The coat did help a needy man.I got me a big fine horse to ride.With that horse, I got a groom his bride!So you see it is simple indeedA little bit of give and take,Will a lot of people happy make!So when you meet your friends today,Try and make their day!The last verse is sung again by the entire chorus, which sings and dances around the boy. In the end, the actors all freeze in the positions of the various characters in the play.----------- Curtain ----------- Stage setting:The boxes below suggest a possible design for the play. Think of each of these boxes as a photograph of a particular scene. You could have the props, costumes, and musical instruments for the play on a bench placed against the back wall, and you could make use of them during the changing of the scenes behind the chorus. Suggestions for the castThe play can be performed by a cast of six to thirty children. With more children, the role of the narrator and the boy can be assumed by many children, besides the other characters. For a cast of four to six children, the roles of the boy and the mother can be fixed, while the other children can take on the various other roles in the play. The stage directions given in the play are only meant as a suggestion or possibility. Please adapt the play to suit your needs in terms of availability of space (stage, classroom, hall etc.), props, sets and costumes.Possible costumes: Regular comfortable clothes like t-shirts and pants or salwar and kameez, OR school uniform.Possible props: Drum, stick, pot, dupattas, depending on availability. The entire play can also be done without any props, all of which can be mimed.Simple musical instruments:Simple musical instruments can be used or the chorus itself can make the appropriate sounds.Suggested stage directions for a group of about 20 to 30 children.Suggested stage directions for a group of about 20 to 30 childrenAll the children are facing away from the audience in three equal lines. A couple of narrators come in a very dramatic fashion. For example, the two of them can be playing a game of catch and suddenly they look at the audience, welcome them, and speak a little about the play together as a chorus: "The story of the boy and the drum, a story about sharing, a story about values, a story about people and not things."The whole group turns to the audience and shouts out the title as one big chorus. The group stays in the three lines, now facing the audience.From now on, the characters will step out of the chorus to the stage space in front and then back into the chorus when they are done with their part in the play.The mother can wear a colored dupatta, which she gives to the boy when she gives him the piece of wood. All the other characters can also wear dupattas, which they exchange with the boy at the appropriate time. This action can symbolize sharing and giving, although this is not essential to the play's action.

Munia knew that the giant, one-feathered elephant bird had not swallowed the horse. Yes, he was big enough to swallow a horse, but that didn't mean he had! The village of Adhania had only one horse-cart pulled by the two horses Vayu and Drut. And Vayu had gone missing near the lake in the jungle where the bird lived.The villagers had known about the elephant bird for generations. He was the last of his race, which was considered extinct for hundreds of years. The world did not know that the living relic of that race, who had lost all his feathers but one, still roamed the jungles of Adhania.The bird and the villagers kept a safe distance from each other. But not Munia. Although she walked with a limp, she was brave of heart. She often slipped into the jungle to watch the elephant bird. The elephant bird came near the lake in the daytime to bask in the sun or play in the lake alone splashing water. Sometimes he sat half-submerged in water. At other times there was no trace of him.Perhaps he just rested in some corner of the dense jungle. He stood as tall as a tree. He had a long strong neck, huge legs with claws and a heavy spear-like head. His long talons and nails looked scary. But Munia soon realised he was a shy herbivorous bird. He just munched on leaves by the lakeside.Munia felt she had something in common with him. The elephant bird could not fly and Munia could not run! Other village children mocked her limp and did not include her in their games. That was why she liked staying alone. Every morning Munia helped fetch three pitchers of water from the village well, and collected wood so that Amma could light the stove. And then she would be out for a long time. Amma believed she went out to play with the kids. Little did she know that Munia went into the jungle to the lake where the elephant bird lived. One day, gathering courage, Munia stepped in the open near the lake. Without turning his head the elephant bird rolled his eyes towards Munia and then closed them, uninterested by her advance.Getting no more attention than the flies buzzing over his head, Munia stomped her feet. Suddenly the elephant bird lifted one of his claws. Munia cried and fell headlong into the shallow waters of the lake. She came out drenched to see him shaking all over. He was laughing! “That's funny, huh?” she asked angrily and turned to leave. Before Munia had walked away from the clearing, something hit her feet. It was a fruit that the elephant bird had thrown at her. The elephant bird wanted to play! Hesitantly, Munia threw it at him. He trotted sideways and caught the fruit in his beak. Thus, Munia's friendship with the elephant bird had begun. And just when she had finally found a friend, Vayu had gone missing! And everyone's suspicion had turned towards the elephant bird. After searching for Vayu high and low, the villagers gathered under the old banyan tree. Everyone agreed that there could be no thief in Adhania. They all trusted one another. The milkman swore that he had seen Vayu gallop away towards the lake. “There is no sign of Vayu anywhere. It must be something in the jungle that got him,” a villager addressed the headman. “Who else can it be but the giant one-feathered elephant bird? He must be destroyed!” said the milkman. “For years he has been lying silent, hatching his evil plans!” The crowd agreed. Munia watched the proceedings quietly. She wanted to speak, but was scared of being punished for speaking up. Even if she spoke, who would believe her? “Yes, all these years of aimless living has made the giant dangerous,” said Munia's father. “Today it is a horse, tomorrow it may be our children...”The headman spoke over the villagers' angry shouts, “Brothers, even though we are facing a giant, we have the strength of numbers. So let us go out and finish him!” A cheer of approval went up. “The elephant bird did not eat the horse,” Munia said softly but firmly, limping forward. “I was with him when Vayu went missing!” A heavy silence fell on the gathering. “What does this mean?” roared the headman. “That the elephant bird is my friend, and he has not done this!”“This girl has lost her mind!” shouted someone from the back. The other children laughed. “He only eats leaves! How can he eat Vayu?” Munia shouted, not moving from her place. “You can't even plait your hair and you are giving us advice?” Munia's father fumed and came towards her. “Go play with your friends!”“This elephant bird is the only friend I have,” said Munia. Her father glared at her. But she didn't cry and stood there facing the villagers.“Forget about the girl, we will get the elephant bird in the morning,” said the headman and the gathering dispersed. Munia had only one night to prove the elephant bird's innocence. “Think, Munia, think!” she whispered to herself. “The milkman saw Vayu gallop away on the road that goes to the lake. But the road takes a turn before it reaches the lake and goes towards Chandesara. What if Vayu had gone that way?”Munia's parents were angry with her and sent her to bed without speaking a word. Once they were asleep, she got out of bed, took the hanging lamp and stepped out of the house. She crossed Adhania, and came to the jungle path leading to Chandesara, the neighbouring village. Whoooo... rang the call of an owl in the jungle air. A jackal howled from a distance. The shadows of trees moved like long dark fingers. She hesitated for a moment but then thought of the elephant bird sleeping peacefully in the jungle. If she didn't do something to solve the mystery, the elephant bird may not be alive to see the next night. She took a deep breath and limped alone on the jungle path in the dead of the night. The next morning the villagers gathered near the lake with sticks, sharp stones and long kitchen knives. The elephant bird was resting when the crowd approached him. The sun shone on his featherless back. He got up slowly and stared at the crowd. Looking at his size, the villagers stopped at some distance. After a moment's hesitation the headman cried, “Be ready!” The mob roared, firming the grip on the weapons, ready to run down the giant one-feathered elephant bird. “Stop!” Munia's thin voice cut through the din. She limped between the mob and the giant.“Munia! Come back at once!” her father ordered. “Grab her!” cried someone else.Munia's father and another villager rushed towards her. The elephant bird advanced a couple of steps and they stopped. “Okay... if this is how you want it, we'll tackle both of you together!” yelled a man, holding a spear. “What's going on?” someone shouted from behind the crowd. A slightly hunched man with a long beard came in holding a horse's reins.The headman asked with a surprised look, “Saarthi, what are you doing here? And why is Vayu with you?” “Oh, as you know, I had sold Vayu to you some years back. Yesterday I was passing by your village early in the morning in my buggy pulled by Jhabru and Ghabru – Vayu's brothers. I don't know how Vayu got loose and followed us back to Chandesara! I couldn't recognize him and didn't know what to do with him until this morning when I saw this little girl going from hut to hut, asking about a lost horse. But what is going on?” he asked again. The villagers did not answer Saarthi. They hung their heads in shame. Munia's father went to her, lifted her in his arms and took her back to the village. Since that day, no child laughed at Munia's limp. They all wanted to be friends with her. And they all wanted to be friends with the elephant bird.Munia's tale reached many villages and the villagers in faraway hamlets whispered to each other, “Munia knew that the giant one-feathered elephant bird had not swallowed the horse!” This story is inspired by the real Elephant Bird (scientific name: Aepyornis maximus), the biggest bird that walked our planet. It inhabited the island of Madagascar. With more and more settlements on the island, and more forests ruined, the species became extinct around 1700 CE.

A poor woman had a son. She worked hard as a gardener in wealthy houses in their town. They gave her some grain in return.But she felt bad because she could never afford to buy nice clothes or lovely toys for her son.The little lad was bright and cheerful. Not having any toys or nice clothes did not bother him. After a hard day's work, the mother was going to the market to sell the grain she had received.She asked her son:Mother: What can I get for you from the market, little one?Now the boy was fascinated with the sound of a drum. So he said:Boy: A drum, mother, I would love to have a drum to play with. The mother knew she would never have enough money to buy a drum for her son. She went to the market, sold her grain and bought some gram flour and some salt.While returning home, she felt sad that she would have to face him empty-handed. So when she saw a nice piece of wood on the road, she picked it up and brought it home.The son did not know what to do with the piece of wood. Yet he happily carried it with him when he went out to play.A happy song sprang to his lips and he went along singing it:Boy: Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot!I asked for a drum and look what I got,A lovely piece of wood!I asked for a drum and look what I got,I think my luck is good!Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee TotTum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot! And as he went skipping along on his way, he came across an old man. The old man was trying to light his stove using some cow-dung cakes. The fire was not catching and there was smoke all around. The smoke made the man's eyes water and he was coughing. The little boy ran up to him and said:Boy: What is the matter Grandpa? Can I help you in any way?Old Man: Ah! Little one, I am trying to cook some food, but I am unable to start a fire. For you see,My fire will just not startI need to cook. Oh! Take a lookMy fire will never start!Can somebody start this fire?My eyes are red, my arms are tired.I need to eat, I need some food.Oh! For a dry piece of wood! Boy: Here, Grandpa, you can use my piece of wood to start your fire.Narrator: The old man was very pleased. He lit his fire, made some bread and gave a piece to the boy.The boy skipped along singing his song:Boy: La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- LaLa-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La!My piece of wood got me some food.A lovely piece of bread.My piece of wood is not a drum, but itGot me bread. A lovely piece of bread.La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- LaLa-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La!The boy walked on till he came upon a potter's wife. She had her baby in her arms. The baby was wailing and flailing her arms.The boy said:Boy: Dear lady, why is your daughter crying?Potter's Wife: My little one is hungry. She has not had anything to eat since morning. I cannot give her anything as there is nothing in the house. I wish I had some bread to give her.The kind hearted boy gave the lady his bread. She gave the bread to her child who ate it eagerly and stopped crying. She was so pleased with the boy that she gave him a large pot. The boy went along humming his funny song:Boy: Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee TotTum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot!I gave my bread away andLook what I got!I gave my bread away andGot a lovely pot!Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee TotTum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot!The little boy skipped along until he came upon a strange scene at the river bank.A washerman was quarreling loudly with his wife.The boy stopped and asked:Boy: Dear Sir, what is the matter? Why are you quarreling with your wife?Narrator: The washerman said:Washerman: You see, son, it was like this,I gave her a pot, I gave her a pot.And what did she do?I gave her a pot, it cost a lot.She went and broke it too!I gave her the pot that cost a lot.It'll cost me all the more.She broke the pot, the last of my lot,And now I feel so sore! I gave her the pot, the pot she broke.The pot I need to boil my clothes.Without the pot, my clothes will rot.Oh, they will remain soiled!So you see, I have nothing to boil my clothes in before I wash them. And because of her, my trade will suffer.Boy: Dear Sir, don't quarrel with your wife. Please take this pot of mine and use it.The washerman was very happy with the pot. He was so pleased with the boy's good nature that he gave him a nice coat in return.The boy ran along singing his funny song.Boy: As I walked along,With my pot in hand,I met a washerman.Who gave me this coat so grand!Oh so funny indeed!People looking for things,And I have what they need! The boy walked on, all the while admiring his grand coat. He soon came to a bridge, and there he was alarmed by what he saw.A man was shivering in the cold and he was not even wearing a shirt. He seemed to be hurt and was moaning in pain. The boy was very concerned and ran up to the man and said:Boy: You seem to be bleeding,You seem to be hurt!I'll try and get you some help.You also need a coat.The boy asked the man how he came to be in such a sorry state. The man said:Man: I was riding my horse in a hurry.I was riding my horse to the city.A crowd of thieves, they came and GOT me!They got me down, they got me out.They took my purse, got all my money.I tried to put up a good fight.But they beat me up, they beat me bad.They left me in pain, they left me hurt.They took it all, even my shirt!The boy said:Boy: Your need is greater than mine. Please take this coat. It will help you keep warm.The man was touched by the little lad's kindness. He thanked the boy profusely and presented him with the big fine horse he was riding. The boy was very happy and led the horse along, singing his song.Boy: Oh so funny indeed!People looking for things,And I have what they need!A man needs a shirt,But all he has is a big fine horse!I gave him my coat, what did I get?His big fine horse, of course!As he was walking along with his horse, he came upon a large party of gaily dressed people. They were part of a big wedding party with the bridegroom, and musicians. They seemed ready to go in a wedding procession, but all of them were sitting under a tree with long faces.The boy stopped and asked them what made them look so depressed. The groom's father said:Groom's father: You see, son, it's like this. We are all set to go in the wedding procession. But we need a horse for the groom. The man who was supposed to bring it hasn't turned up, the auspicious hour is almost gone.And the groom himself stepped up to the boy and said:Groom: I am the groom.Waiting to see my bride,But I'm stuck in here Just hoping for a ride!I just can't go there on my feet.My horse is late and so is the hour.My guests are all waiting to eat.I'll miss my wedding for sure!So you see, what I need right now is a horse! I need a horse! A really quick horse!Chorus: He needs a horse, he needs a horse!He needs a really fast horse!And so the boy, being helpful as ever, offered his horse to the groom. The groom was very happy and he asked the boy what he could give him in exchange for his horse.The boy looked around among the musicians and quickly spotted the drummer.He said:Boy: A stitch in time they say saves nine.And what indeed did save the day,Was this splendid horse of mine!All I want from you isThat fine little drum that you play!Oh, make my dreams come true!Please make my dream come true!The groom requested the drummer to hand over the drum to the boy. The drummer knew he would easily get enough money to buy himself a brand new drum. He willingly gave his drum away. The boy rushed home singing his song and playing his new drum. He could not wait to tell his mother how she had helped him to get his drum.Boy: My piece of wood did a lot of good!It got me bread as food.My piece of bread lasted not,But gave me a lovely pot.My pot got me a lovely coat.The coat did help a needy man.I got me a big fine horse to ride.With that horse,I got a groom his bride!So you see it is simple indeedA little bit of give and take,Will a lot of people happy make!So when you meet your friends today,Try and make their day!

I parked myself right under the big orange lantern and asked, “Do I look like a Lantern Queen?”I waited for exactly three minutes. To my dismay, no one replied.Rajjo was really busy in a deep conversation. “Rajjo, Rajjo, Rajjo, Rajjo!” I yelled.She finally tore away from the deep discussion and looked at me.“Do I look like a lantern queen?” I asked, again.“You're mad.” said Rajjo. She looked away and promptly got back to her seemingly important discussion.I now turned to Shriya. Surprisingly she was already staring at me. “Can you see how I'm letting that question just pass?” she said with her sharp eyebrow raised.Sigh! The life of a Lantern Queen is going to be difficult; I thought and looked at Shruti.Shruti was also already staring at me. But she had an I-am-observing-you look all over her face. After a close examination she finally said, “You look more like you have a jelly fish on your head.”“So, I'm the Jelly Fish Queen?” I asked.“Not a queen really...” said Shruti.“So a layperson with a jelly fish on the head?” I confirmed.“Yes.” she said.“Oh! Okay.” I said and sat down.What does Shruti know about the Lantern Queen, I thought.They are all jealous. They don't want to acknowledge the fact that I am now the Lantern Queen.It had to be! It is not every day that a huge lantern appears right about your head.It had to mean something. And I knew exactly what it meant. Only these guys were being oblivious to the facts.I decided that I had to leave for the day. I now had the responsibility of being the Lantern Queen.I looked at my watch and saw it was almost 6.00 in the evening. So I started packing up.I knew being the Lantern Queen was not going to be easy. I had to open up my mind and think profound thoughts. I had to let the light come in.As I walked to the station, I saw a lady running behind a taxi. This was a rather common site in the mad Mumbai city.But today, I pushed myself to look beyond the obvious and find the real meaning hidden behind this scene. What am I missing? There had to be something, I thought.Think like the Lantern Queen! I told myself.Then, out of nowhere, it came to me. I figured that running behind anything in life was a complete waste of energy. Running behind marks as a student, behind money as an adult, was all futile.So, I took a conscious call. If the thing I want can walk with me at my pace, then it's going to be worth the effort. If I have to keep running behind something, then it is simply not going to be sustainable. For how long will I keep running?And anyways, I didn't enjoy running much.After this great analysis, I felt really enlightened. I had opened up my mind and this role-play was now becoming really interesting.So with a spring in my step, I marched on towards the station.I was carefully looking left to cross the road when a cabbie came by in full speed and splashed a whole lot of muck over my jeans.If this were yet another day, I would have started running behind the cabbie while showering him with all the curse words I knew of.But today, I kept my cool. I let him go and thought, why did this happen?This time, the bulb in my head didn't go on. So, I did the most fun thing I could do in that moment. I walked right into that puddle of muck and jumped up and down till my whole top was dirty as well.By the time I was out, I saw a million eyes staring at me. But, I didn't feel embarrassed. I was now the Lantern Queen, and they didn't know that the Lantern Queen could do anything.I picked up my pace once again and walked towards the station.Once I got onto my platform, I saw the most miraculous sight. Slowly pulling in was a 12-coach train that was completely empty!For a city dweller, this situation is worthy of great emotions. I could feel a surge of emotions swell in me. I was elated beyond words.I promptly stepped into the train and made myself comfortable for the ride back home.Train journeys back home were my most favourite part of the day. I could feel the stress release my system. This was also my thinking time.And so, I put my thinking cap on.I pondered on what would the Lantern Queen do in this valuable free time?I didn't have to think too long, as a fellow passenger soon gave me the answer by throwing a bag full of garbage out of the window.I gently got up and sat next to that lady and told her, “Aunty, please don't throw things out of the window.”“Why not?” she asked almost confused.“Cause it can result in the spread of many diseases, aunty! If you have thrown some kind of food, then it will encourage the rodents and rats on the tracks. It is not at all hygienic.” I said.“Is it? I didn't think of the outcome when I threw the bag outside. I have seen everyone do it, so I do it out of habit now.” explained the lady.“Now you know better, no? So next time please wait till the platform comes? There are dustbins there!” I said.“Okay, I will listen to you young lady. We must change with the times.” said the aunty.We both exchanged really wide smiles and I felt really proud of myself.I was shaken out of my thoughts when I heard the voice of the announcer announcing that the next destination was my station.I dusted my outfit a little and got up.The Lantern Queen now had to face her mother. This I knew was going to be a tough one.After a quick auto ride from station to home, I found myself standing outside the door of my house.I was a little worried now. My clothes were costly. I didn't want to be greeted by an angry mother.So again, I forced myself to think like the Lantern Queen. And the bulb in my head did flicker, but it came right on.I quickly rummaged my bag for the house key. I knew I had it in there somewhere. Soon enough, I found it.I opened the door and ran into my room. “Hi Maa! I'm home,” I yelled as I crossed my parent's room.By the time my mom came to see what was up, I was safely inside my bathroom.“What are you doing inside?” enquired a suspicious mother.“Ma! I am taking a bath!” I yelled.“Why?” continued the suspicious mother.“Because I feel like it Ma! I'm all sweaty.”“Okay. I will see you at the dinner table. Be quick.” she ended.I knew well that she was not convinced. Mothers have this instinct. They just know everything.But this time I had escaped because I was the Lantern Queen. I washed my clothes squeaky clean and realised that a mistake is not really a mistake if one can undo it.When I came out, mom was at the table.She had made hot soup with fried bread.I was so hungry that I gulped down two bowl-fulls.By the end of it all, my full stomach was making me really drowsy.“Can I go to sleep, ma?” I asked her.“Are you sure everything is fine? Don't you want to share some office gossip today?” she asked.“Yes ma! All is fine! I promise. I'm just sleepy.” I said.“Fine, go to sleep. But you have to catch-up with me tomorrow.” she said before I pecked her on the cheek and headed straight to bed.When I felt the warmth of the sun on my face, I knew it was morning.I opened my eyes and saw that I was up much before the alarm.This came as a pleasant surprise.I felt like a true queen in her chamber. I got off the bed with great grace and poise.I decided I will wear the royal purple and picked out my clothes from the wardrobe.In no time, I was ready.I went to my parent's room to find both of them happily chatting away over a cup of tea.“Good morning from the queen!” I announced before I walked in.“But aren't you our princess?” asked dad puzzled.“Dad, I am multitasking!” I replied.“Ahh, ok your highness.” replied dad.With dad, it was always like this. No questions asked. Just go with the flow.I had a quick cup of tea with them discussed the beautiful weather. As soon I was done with my cup, I took off for work.The Lantern Queen was never late, I knew that.My journey to work went as smooth as my morning. It flowed like a calm stream of the river. No jerks, no breaks, no peaks, no falls. No extremes.I reached office a little before time. I punched-in and walked towards my team. With an air of superiority, I went and sat at my desk.I put on the computer and looked up at my lantern.What I saw now, shook me.The lantern was gone! It was gone?I didn't understand the meaning of this. I stood up to see where it had moved.I stared at the receptionist with great anger. My lantern was right above her head.“Who did that?” I asked Shruti, pointing towards the lantern.“Must be of office boys. They are the ones in charge of the Diwali decorations, no? They must have moved it.”“But, it was right above my head yesterday!” I complained.“Yes, but now it is above the reception desk where everyone can see it and feel the Diwali feel!” said Shruti putting some sense in the discussion.I turned away from her and sat down.This was very upsetting. Was I the Lantern Queen just for a day? I didn't want to stop being the Lantern Queen. I was enjoying each and every minute of it.This was depressing. There had to be a way out.“Purvi, will you please come here?” called out my editor.Like an obedient zombie, I got up and walked towards her desk.“You know we are coming up with our Diwali Special issue, right?” she asked“Yes ma'am.” I replied.“So here is something that is going to make your day brighter. You have to come up with a fictional character and its story. We will carry this as a continuing series in the magazine till Diwali. This character has to talk about the festivities that are seen in the city right before the actual festival. Like a build-up, you know?”My mind was racing now. “Yes, I get it.”“This is quite a big opportunity for an intern, Purvi. You are getting it because the rest of the team has their hands full already. And if you get this right, we might consider you for a permanent employee too.” said my editor.“Ma'am, umm, uh, err. Can this character be called the Lantern Queen?” I asked with all hope.My editor fell silent for a few seconds. I could feel my heart beat pick up. I was sure it was audible to everyone else too now.“Lantern Queen?” she asked,“Hmm. Okay, that does have a ring to it. Quickly write your character sketch and treatment and send it across to me. Let's get this working.” she concluded.What! Did I just hear that right? This had to be the best day of my life!It was right then I realised that, by appearing above my head the previous day, the lantern had changed something. Its light had touched me and transformed me for life. It had ensured that I could not only be the Lantern Queen forever, but also write about it publically!Somewhere deep down inside, I just knew this was my very own big break.This Diwali was going to be full of lights, laughter and happiness.The End

Hi I'm D-56.I was a Techdroid at that factory over there. Part of my job was to inspect the solar-panel array that powers the factory.One day, I found that a whole bunch of them had been knocked down, and nearly destroyed, by a couple of Crocobots, who were lying lazily in the middle of the array like they owned the place!I'm Crunk. My friends and me were having a peaceful nap on that riverbank after a busy night of scavenging up and down the river for junk parts.Suddenly this crazyfactory droid started shouting and screaming at us! We thought the little fellow was really funny and burst out laughing. This made him really mad and he startedtossing rocks at us! I threw one tiny pebble at them and they jumped up and started chasing me! I tried to get away but they were too fast, and caught hold of me in no time. I was terrified and pleaded with them to let me go.They said they wouldn't recycle me if I gave them our service-droid to do some maintenance work on their king but if not, they would recycle me for throwing stones at them!He promised to give our king his Service-Droid if we let him go, so, we let him go with a warning that if he didn't keep his promise, we would dismantle him and recycle his parts. I am called Slinky I am the central computer at this factory. D-56 told me that he had been forced to agree to give our factory's one and only Service-Droid to some crocobot king!Who were these crocobots? I looked them up in my data banks...They appeared to be standard bots. Why did they need our service droid!She wouldn't be able to repair themwithout the right spares or tools.Then it occurred to me that they probably wanted to tear her to bits and take what parts they could use!How horrible!I would not allow it!I refused to send her off to these horrible crocobots. Slinky convinced us to forget about the crocobots and continue with our factory work but,a few days later sector-III was completely destroyed in a fire!My name is Z3R0 my friends call me ZERO.After yesterday's disaster, Slinky sent me to sector-5, but this time that sector had to be closed down because a highly infectious virus had infected its systems.Slinky decided that the crocobots must be behind all this, because, I hadn't been given to them! Slinky made me go meet the crocobots and ask them if we could give them 30 brand new battery-packs instead of our precious Zero .They refused, and warned me that unless we kept our side of the agreement, they would cause even worse problems! The next day that service droid of theirs fell down and smashed her right tool array!We had nothing to do with it, but their computer thought that it was our doing!She sent that fellow D56 to tell us that they did not want any more problems and were finally ready to hand over their service-droid.Ha! Ha! We didn't have anything to do with it!We did set fire to a section of their factory, and one of us did sneak in and plant a computer virus, but we didn't do any thing to the service droid!Looks like it was just our good luck that it happened! Slinky and D56 had just helped my fix myself when a couple of crocobots came to the factory with boxes of tools and machine parts to retrofit onto me.They behaved with the utmost politeness and carried out all their modification procedures with surprising precision. After the modifications were done, they started off towards the river.I went along to keep Zero company for as long as I was allowed.When we reached the river one of them gave me a small tin box and said that if I ever wanted to see Zero again I should use what was in it.Then they all jumped in dragging poor zero along with them. It had been 3 months since we lost our service droid and I was missing her a lot.D56 showed me the box the crocobots had given him, inside was some kind of chip that seemed to be made for plugging into one of his slots.After we plugged it in he jumped up and said that he knew where to find Zero and was off at top speed towards the river!With the factory's telescopic camera's I saw him jump into the water!I thought that this would be the end of him, that chip must have had some horrible virus from those horrible crocobots! It must have driven him mad! Finally, after almost 3 days, D56 returned to the factory.Surprisingly he didn't have a speck of rust on him in fact he was actually shinier than usual,reminded me of when Zero used to be around,everything used to be spotless and clean.He was all excited about something and begged me to get into my mobile unit and go with him into the river!Seemed to me that his circuits had been damaged by river the water. It took a while but eventually I convinced slinky to come with me to the river, I had to tell her that I had found another factory close to ours that had some new systems that she should look at.She started to get into her mobile unit and while she wasn't looking I plugged in a chip that I had with me.As soon as I got into my mobile unit I suddenly felt this urge to go somewhere and D56 seemed to know where I wanted to go.We jumped into the river and I found that I wasn't getting wet because there was an energy shield protecting me!I ran a system check, and found a chip that was a lot like the one the crocobots had given to D56! It was telling me where to go and seemed to point me in the same direction that D56 was taking me. So I went along. The chips generated energy shields around our bodies that kept the water out!As soon as we landed on theriverbed we started in thedirection the chips told us to go and soon we were in the ocean that the river flowed into.I couldn't wait to show slinky what I had found!After a few more minutes we reached a magnificent underwater structure, with transparent domes, and shining, glittering plasteel walls.Next to it were a group of huge hydro-fans in the middle of a garden of energy cells . When we reached the airlock, Slinky asked me what this factory was doing at the bottom of the ocean?I laughed and told her that it wasn't a factory it was a city, and it belonged to the crocobots!Wow! Such a big city! Poor Zero must have so much work to do!These horrible crocobots must be forcing her to work day and night! Suddenly I saw a group of huge amphibious droids swimming down towards us.For their size they seemed to move surprisingly fast.As they got closer I saw that they were not moving on the ocean floor like we where.They were swimming!They were swimming fast!I thought they must be some kind of amphibious droid troopers because they were swimming in formation with the leader in front! When they reached us at the airlock, they stopped and landed in front of us.I rushed forward and cried,”O general! Help me! I'm a poor Factory computer whose Service-droid, was carried off by thedreadful King of the Crocobots!” It had been a busy day and I had just finished teaching some of the crocobots how to fix a power pack when there was a beep from the airlock telling me that the king and his survey team had returned and were standing outside.I went and opened the airlock. Suddenly the airlock opened and out stepped Zero! I was overjoyed to see her and told her that I had just asked these fine droid troopers to help release her from the clutches of the terrible crocobots.They all started laughing! D56, Zero and the troopers!Suddenly the leader of the droid troopers made a strange beeping sound and startedshifting and adjusting his armor plates, . . . . . . and then he turned into a crocobot!“I am the king of the crocobots!” I said to the factory computer.“Your service-droid is a good, efficient droid, and you will find that we have been kind to her.”I then explained to her that after years of haphazard retrofitting and other modifications; using old droid parts; we crocobots were now mostly droid and only became crocobots when we walked on land, but in water we changed into our droid selves and lived in this underwater city of croco-droids! D56 and Slinky moved into the underwater city with the croco-bot-droids and Zero,and they all lived happily ever after.THE END.

In a country called Gabon, a littlevillage stood at the very edge of aforest. In the heart of this forest, inthe highest branches of anenormous tree, lived a very specialbird − the bird that made rain. For as far back as the villagerscould remember, they had takenthe time to keep this bird happy.They saved scraps of bread, piecesof fruit and fresh coconut milk, andevery week or two a group ofvillagers took these delicacies intothe forest. When they had laid themat the base of the tree, one of themplayed a simple tune on the thumbpiano. After a while, the bird flew down tothe ground to eat and drink. Whenshe had finished, she began to singthe most beautiful song.At the same time, she raised herdark, shiny blue wings, and withinminutes, the rain began to fall. This went on for many years.Because the rain fell regularly, thecrops grew abundantly and therewas plenty of food in the village.But gradually things began tochange. Somehow, the villagerswere always busy and they beganto neglect the rain bird. "It will rainanyway," they said. "It's time tostop spoiling that silly old bird!" But the people were wrong. Whenthey stopped looking after the bird,the rain stopped falling.The crops began to dry up and die,and the animals grew thin andweak. Still, nobody in the villagewent into the forest to feed the birdthat brought the rain. Now theywere all too busy trying to findmoney to buy food in theneighbouring town. One scorching day, a young girl called Ketti decided to go into theforest after school. "At least it will be cool in there," she thought toherself. She walked and walked, and after some time, she came tothe tall tree in which the rain bird lived. Ketti stared up at the tree.Suddenly, she remembered how her granny had taken her into theforest to feed the bird when she was still a tiny child. Ketti openedher school bag and pulled out a piece of bread left over from herlunch. Carefully she laid the bread at the base of the tree. Then,because she had no thumb piano with her, she sang an old songthat she had known all her life. With a loud whooshing sound, abeautiful blue bird swooped out ofthe branches above Ketti's headand began to eat the bread. Whenthe bird had finished, she openedher mouth and sang a few pure,high notes.Then she raised her shiny wingsand all of a sudden Ketti heard therumble of thunder. By the time shereached her home, giant rain dropswere pelting down, cooling thebaking red earth. Ketti was very happy, until she told her parents what hadhappened. "Don't be silly!" scolded her mother. "Nobody believesthat bird has anything to do with the rain anymore!""Your mother is right," said Ketti's father. "The drought has beenbroken now and we will be fine. Don't go wasting good breadfeeding that greedy old bird again!"Though Ketti didn't argue with her parents, she felt sure they werewrong. "If only Granny were still alive," she said to herself, "shewould have believed me!" But Ketti's granny had died a few yearsearlier. The only thing Ketti had left, was her granny's old thumbpiano. Two weeks passed and there was nomore rain. The crops began toshrivel up again and the hungryanimals' ribs began to stick outeven more. The sun beat downmercilessly from a glaring blue sky."I don't care what they say!"thought Ketti. "We need rain. I'mgoing to feed the bird againtomorrow!" So, early the next morning, aftertaking a slice of bread and ahandful of red berries from thekitchen, Ketti slipped out of thehouse. She began to make her wayto the centre of the forest.What she didn't realise, was thather father was also awake. When hesaw what his daughter was doing,he realised that she was going tofeed the rain bird again. "I'll teach that disobedient child a lesson!" he said to himselfangrily. He snatched his bow and arrows and silently followed Kettiinto the forest.Just as the bird flew down to eat the food that Ketti had set out forit, her father raised his bow and released his deadly arrow. Thearrow flew straight into the bird's heart. The bird let out a piercingshriek.Terrified, Ketti spun around − just in time to see her father falldown, stone dead. Ketti screamed and turned around − just intime to see the arrow fall harmlessly from the bird's glossy body.Then the bird, unharmed, swooped up into the highest branch ofthe tree. Ketti raced out of the forest to ascene of utter devastation. Everyanimal and every person she sawlay dead on the ground. With apounding heart, she ran all the wayback to her home.She quickly found her granny's oldthumb piano. "This is my onlyhope!" she thought. "The rain bird isangry. I have to make her happyagain! I HAVE to!" Half an hour later, Ketti was back atthe base of the big tree. Her bodywas drenched with sweat and shewas gasping for breath. A few pacesaway from her lay the lifeless bodyof her father.Ketti looked away quickly, and withtrembling hands, began to play thethumb piano.She played and played, until herfingers hurt. Finally, what she wanted most inthe world happened. Down swoopedthe bird as if nothing had happened.The bird ate some of the berries stilllying on the ground and sang a fewnotes. Then, as Ketti played on, thebird raised her wings. Ketti heard arustle behind her. It was her father who had wokenup."I'm sorry!" he said again and againto the big, blue bird.Then he held out his hand to hisdaughter and they walked slowlyback to the village. In the village allthe people and animals were aliveagain. That night the villagers held ameeting. They all agreed that theyhad learned a valuable lesson. Andfrom that day onwards, not oneweek passed without a special tripto the forest to feed the bird thatbrought the rain.

It was the first wedding in theTenane family, and Refiloe hadnever been so excited in her life."I'm going to be Palesa'sbridesmaid, with a new dress andshoes!" she said to her chickens.Refiloe told her chickens everything.Her father had given the chickensto her as a birthday present, andshe loved them very much. "Take those dirty scruffy chickensout of here Refiloe!" shouted hermother, "I don't want themanywhere near this wedding tent." Refiloe shooed her chickens out ofthe tent."Run away you silly things." shesaid, "I don't want you to be eatenat Palesa's wedding!" "Mme says that this is going to be the best weddingever seen in Malealea," Refiloe told her chickens,"and she says that I can help all the older girls withthe cooking."The chickens paid no attention to her."Refiloe!" called her mother from inside, "leave thosechickens of yours and come and help me with thesepots please!" Refiloe's mother was very proud of her house, and wanted it to beperfect for the wedding. She cleaned and washed and scrubbedand scoured and polished everything in sight. When she hadfinished, there was not a single speck of dust anywhere.The chickens poked their heads inside the front door. "Out!"shouted Refiloe's mother, "out you scruffy things with your dirtyfeet and beaks!" Refiloe followed her chickens out into the yard."Mme is right, you are a disgrace," she scolded themSo Refiloe thought for a while. Suddenly she smiledand said to herself, "I have an excellent idea."She went and filled a bucket with water from thespring.Refiloe had a lot of trouble catching her chickens.They did not think that a bath was such a good idea. Refiloe put the first chicken into thebucket of water.It clucked at the top of its voice andflapped its wings like crazy."Hold still you silly thing," Refiloeshouted, "this won't take long!"When Refiloe wiped the chicken'snose and eyes it suddenly wentlimp andflopped over the side of the bucket. "This is no time to sleep," saidRefiloe. She gave it a good shake toget all the water out."If you are not going to wake upnow, I'll have to put you somewhereto dry nicely," she said. She laid thechicken out on the grass to dry.The chicken lay completely still. Refiloe washed each and every one of her chickens.Each and every one of them went limp and floppybefore she was finished with it.She put all those eight chickens in a row on the grassto dry.Not one of them moved a single feather."I'll leave them to sleep a little," Refiloe thought toherself, and off she went to check on the moroho. Mme Ngwe and Mme Pedi wereRefiloe's aunts. They did not likeeach other at all.The aunts had been preparing formonths for Palesa's wedding, butthey would not even think aboutriding together in the same taxi. Mme Ngwe spotted Refiloe's chickens laid out to dry."What a nice little snack for me to take home!" shesaid to herself.She took off her chale and carefully wrapped allthose chickens up in it.Not a single chicken moved."Perfect!" she smiled, "now I shall put themsomewhere where Mme Pedi will not ever find them,"and she put the bundle around the corner among thepumpkin vines. Mme Pedi decided to make her famous pumpkin dish. She took herbig bowl and went off to the vegetable garden.In the vegetable garden she saw Mme Ngwe's bundle under thepumpkin vine. She undid the bundle.Out fell all eight chickens. "Eish!" she cried jumping back insurprise."Oh, you are the cleanest, prettiest chickens! Just ready for mypot," she crooned."Now, where shall I hide you my darlings?" Mme Pedi chuckled, "I'llhave to find a very good place," she said walking round the house."I know," she said at last, "I'll put you on the roof!"Mme Pedi climbed up onto the garden wall and put the chickens ina row on the thatched roof. The next day the sun rose in good time for the wedding. Refiloewas up first and went to see her chickens.She saw that they were no longer lying on the grass."They must be nicely dry by now. I'm sure they have gone to lookfor their breakfast," she said. Palesa's wedding was wonderful.Those chickens did not get up off the roof to join inwhen all the bridesmaid ladies danced into the yard.Not one of the chickens stirred when the church choirsang in their loudest, sweetest voices.The chickens were still lying on the roof when thepriest gave his sermon.They did not even twitch a feather when the pigs andRefiloe's grandfather all snored loudly in the middleof the sermon.Not one foot of those chickens trembled when sheepwandered into the tent, nearly knocking over thewedding cake. It was only when the groom's fatherwas halfway through his speechthat things started to change onthat roof. The first chicken spread its wings and flew onto Mme Ngwe'sbosom. Mme Pedi next to her started giggling.Another chicken flew up onto Mme Ngwe's new duku. The peopleat the next table tried not to laugh.The lady next to Mme Ngwe put her head down onto the table, "Ai,aai, aaaaii, he, he, heeeeeeee!" she cackled.All the other chickens decided to join the first two. You couldn't seeMme Ngwe for all those chickens! The guests screamed with laughter.The men had to hold onto their bellies.The women rolled around in their chairs.The boys and girls were hanging onto each other.The grandmothers could hardly breathe for laughing.The grandfathers stamped their walking sticks.Then the two aunts looked at each other and started giggling.Mme Pedi opened her mouth wide with laughter. Mme Ngwe threwback her head and laughed until all her chins shook.Refiloe couldn't believe it! All the guests agreed that it was the best wedding entertainmentever known in Malealea."Oh you are so lucky!" Refiloe said to her chickens as she put theminto their coop for the night, "Mme says that she will never put youin the supper pot.""But look how dirty you are again," she told them, "I think I'll haveto give you another wash tomorrow!"

This story happened during the great famine in Rajasthan. The village farmlands all over the state looked like wide spans of desert under the cloudless sky. The Villagers of Jaisalmer were not sure how to bring rain in their part of the village. Even the Traditional Folklore Singer couldn't bring blessings of rain with his heart-moving songs.Eventually, the Folklore Singer decided to travel to the haunted village of Kuldhara to get the help of his Master's spirit.Early next day, the Singer started from his village. He was confident that his wise Master would have a solution for his village's rainproblems. He was willing to face any challenge to find a solution.After walking many miles, the Singer saw an object growing big slowly as he walked towards it. When he was close enough, he found a huge bone.Now the Singer was greatly puzzled as to which animal it could possibly be to have such a huge skeleton. He then remembered his Master teaching him a folklore song that brought dead animals to life.So he began singing with great joy and soon with each dip and fall of his song the bones got their life back. Almost at the end of the songthe huge bone structure turned to be a creature from the ancient past.The creature was a Dinosaur which looked at him with wide-eyed wonder. The Singer was happy to bring life to the Dinosaur. Now that his work was done, he decided to walk his way to Kuldhara to meet his Master.As he walking away, he heard the loud thumping of the Dinosaur's feet following him. He turned to the creature and said that he should go his way where ever he wishes to go.But the creature would just smile athim and lick his face. The Singer understood the creature is going to follow him all his way. In the end, he decided maybe he could show this creature to his Master after all and took him along with him.The odd pair of the Singer and Dinosaur made their way toward Kuldhara. On the way the Singer would sing a few songs to keep him entertained and the Dinosaur would shake his head and tail keeping with the song's rhythm.Soon they reached Kuldhara at night fall. The Singer walked to his Master's house. At the house, the door opened and all their needs were magically taken care.That night, the Singer placed all the offering that he brought with him at his Master's prayer room altar and awaited his arrival. At the stroke of midnight the Master appeared before the Singer.The Singer bowed before his Master's spirit and asked him for help to solve the rain problem of his village. The Master smiled and said, “You have travelled far, so rest a while. We will talk later tomorrow.”“Master I even tried the rain song folklore too. Yet nothing happened and my people are thinking of leaving the village, please help me master,” cried the Singer in desperation.“I did tell you that we will talk later. So don't worry, your answers will be with you in the morning,” said the Master's spirit.The Singer as per his Master's command slept in house and the next day was getting ready to leave, when he heard someone singing off tune. He searched for the person singing so off-key.A huge surprise waited for the Singer because the off-tune song was sung by the Dinosaur. The Dinosaur on seeing the Singer immediately stopped singing and said, “Did I disturb you?”“You sounded a little off-key but youhave a nice voice though,” said the Singer not wishing to hurt the creature's feelings.“Do you think that I can learn to sing?” asked the Dinosaur.The Singer thought of the years of practice that goes into learning to sing. He didn't want to discourage the Dinosaur, so he said, “Yes, you can but you need to be dedicated to singing.”The Singer visited his Master's prayer room altar and took his leave. He found a new rain song folklore wound with a red silken cloth.The Singer read through it and thanked his Master for helping him with a new rain song. He was now had a plan of learning the song and making it rain in his village.As the odd pair of the Singer and Dinosaur walked towards Jaisalmer, the Singer kept practicing the song on the way. The Dinosaur listened attentively to the song and kept time with his stomping.By half the way, the Singer had learned the song as per his Master's notation. So he decided that he would sing it once to see if he got it right.As he was singing, the cloud beganto crowd in and they seemed to be ready to rain. When the Singer looked out with hope the rain bearing cloud dispersed without showering rain. The Singer was greatly disappointed.By then, the Singer and Dinosaur had reached traveling nomad's camp and joined them to rest for the night.Once the camp members and the Singer had gone to bed for the night, the Dinosaur began his practice of his new song that he had been learning from listening to the Singer.At one of the high pitches of thesong, the sleeping Singer woke up and heard the Dinosaur sing the rain song off-keys.The Singer remembered the time when his Master had spoken about rainmaking songs. “The best rain songs are those that are sung as a duet!”“Maybe this was the solution that Master has been hinting to me so long,” thought the Singer.For the reminder of the way the Singer taught the Dinosaur how to sing the rain making song in tune. When they reached Jaisalmer the whole village was frightened of the huge Dinosaur.But the Singer pacified them and told them it was a gentle and harmless creature who can sing. He also told them that he found a solution for making rain with his singing Dinosaur friend.When the villagers heard that the Dinosaur could help with bringing rain, then, they began laughing and mocking them.Just to prove the villager wrong and to strengthen his faith in his new found friend, the Singer decided to sing the rain song as a duet.The unusual combination of the Singer and the Dinosaur's rain song moved the skyso much that the rain bearing clouds gathered and there fell huge showers of rain with lightening. The rain drenched the village with life-giving water and it was the best reward from the sky to earth for the soul-moving rain song duet.Soon both the Singer and the Dinosaur became famous as a rain making songster pair. So whenever there was a need for rain this pair of odd singers would visit the village and sing their duet to make the sky reward them with showers of rain.- The End -

They told me the big black Lab's name was Reggie, as I looked at him lying in his pen.. The shelter was clean, no-kill, and the people really friendly. I'd only been in the area for six months, but everywhere I went in the small college town, people were welcoming and open. Everyone waves when you pass them on the street.But something was still missing as I attempted to settle in to my new life here, and I thought a dog couldn't hurt. Give me someone to talk to. And I had just seen Reggie's advertisement on the local news. The shelter said they had received numerous calls right after, but they said the people who had come down to see him just didn't look like “Lab people,” whatever that meant. They must've thought I did.But at first, I thought the shelter had misjudged me in giving me Reggie and his things, which consisted of a dog pad, bag of toys almost all of which were brand new tennis balls, his dishes, and a sealed letter from his previous owner. See, Reggie and I didn't really hit it off when we got home. We struggled for two weeks (which is how long the shelter told me to give him to adjust to his new home). Maybe it was the fact that I was trying to adjust, too. Maybe we were too much alike.For some reason, his stuff (except for the tennis balls — he wouldn't go anywhere without two stuffed in his mouth) got tossed in with all of my other unpacked boxes.I guess I didn't really think he'd need all his old stuff, that I'd get him new things once he settled in. But it became pretty clear pretty soon that he wasn't going to.I tried the normal commands the shelter told me he knew, ones like “sit” and “stay” and “come” and “heel,” and he'd follow them – when he felt like it.He never really seemed to listen when I called his name — sure, he'd look in my direction after the fourth or fifth time I said it, but then he'd just go back to doing whatever.When I'd ask again, you could almost see him sigh and then grudgingly obey.This just wasn't going to work. He chewed a couple shoes and some unpacked boxes.I was a little too stern with him and he resented it, I could tell. The friction got so bad that I couldn't wait for the two weeks to be up, and when it was, I was in full-on search mode for my cell phone amid all of my unpacked stuff. I remembered leaving it on the stack of boxes for the guest room, but I also mumbled, rather cynically, that the “damn dog probably hid it on me.”Finally I found it, but before I could punch up the shelter's number, I also found his pad and other toys from the shelter...I tossed the pad in Reggie'sdirection and he snuffed it and wagged, some of the most enthusiasm I'd seen since bringing him home. But then I called, “Hey, Reggie, you like that? Come here and I'll give you a treat.” Instead, he sort of glanced in my direction — maybe “glared” is more accurate — and then gave a discontented sigh and flopped down .... with his back to me.Well, that's not going to do it either, I thought. And I punched the shelter phone number. But I hung up when I saw the sealed envelope. I had completely forgotten about that, too.“Okay, Reggie,” I said out loud, “let's see if your previous owner has any advice.”____________ _________ _________ _________To Whoever Gets My Dog:Well, I can't say that I'm happy you're reading this, a letter I told the shelter could only be opened by Reggie's new owner. I'm not even happy writing it. If you're reading this, it means I just got back from my last car ride with my Lab after dropping him off at the shelter. He knew something was different.I have packed up his pad and toys before and set them by the back door before a trip, but this time... it's like he knew something was wrong. And something is wrong...which is why I have to try to make it right.So let me tell you about my Lab in the hopes that it will help you bond with him and he with you.First, he loves tennis balls. The more the merrier. Sometimes I think he's partsquirrel, the way he hordes them. He usually always has two in his mouth, and he tries to get a third in there. Hasn't done it yet. Doesn't matter where you throw them, he'll bound after it, so be careful – really don't do it by any roads. I made that mistake once, and it almost cost him dearly.Next, commands. The shelter staff probably already told you, but I'll go over them again: Reggie knows the obvious ones — “sit,” “stay,” “come,” “heel.” He knows hand signals: “back” to turn around and go back when you put your hand straight up; and “over” if you put your hand out right or left. “Shake” for shaking water off, and “paw” for a high-five. He does “down” when he feels like lying down — I bet you could work on that with him some more. He knows “ball” and “food” and “bone” and “treat” like nobody's business. Nothing opens his ears like little pieces of hot dog. I trained Reggie with small food treats.Feeding schedule: twice a day, once about seven in the morning, and again at six in the evening. Regular store-bought stuff; the shelter has the brand.He's up on his shots. Call the clinic on 9th Street and update his info with yours; they'll make sure to send you reminders for when he's due. Be forewarned: Reggie hates the vet.Good luck getting him in the car. I don't know how he knows when it's time to go to the vet, but he knows.Finally, give him some time. I've never been married, so it's only been Reggie and me for his whole life. He's gone everywhere with me, so please include him on your daily car rides if you can. He sits well in the backseat, and he doesn't bark or complain. He just loves to be around people, and me most especially. Which means that this transition is going to be hard, with him going to live with someone new.And that's why I need to share one more bit of info with you....His name's not Reggie. I don't know what made me do it, but when I dropped him off at the shelter, I told them his name was Reggie.He's a smart dog, he'll get used to it and will respond to it, of that I have no doubt. But I just couldn't bear to give them his real name. For me to do that, it seemed so final, that handing him over to the shelter was as good as me admitting that I'd never see him again. And if I end up coming back, getting him, and tearing up this letter, it means everything's fine. But if someone else is reading it, well ... well it means that his new owner should know his real name. It'll help you bond with him. Who knows, maybe you'll even notice a change in his demeanor if he's been giving you problems. even though, frankly, I'm just writing it for my dog. I couldn't imagine if I was writing it for a wife and kids and family ... but still, Tank has been my family for the last six years, almost as long as the Army has been my family. His real name is “Tank”, because that is what I drive.Again, if you're reading this and you're from the area, maybe my name has been on the news. I told the shelter that they couldn't make “Reggie” available for adoption until they received word from my company commander. See, my parents are gone, I have no siblings, no one I could've left Tank with ... and it was my only real request of the Army upon my deployment to Iraq , that they make one phone call.. the shelter ... in the “event” ... to tell them that Tank could be put up for adoption. Luckily, my colonel is a dog guy, too, and he knew where my platoon was headed. He said he'd do it personally. And if you're reading this, then he made good on his word.Well, this letter is getting downright depressing.And now I hope and pray that you make him part of your family and that he will adjust and come to love you the same way he loved me.That unconditional love from a dog is what I take with me to Iraq as an inspiration to do something selfless, to protect innocent people from thosewho would do terrible things ... and to keep those terrible people from coming over here. If I have to give up Tank in order to do it, I am glad to have done so. He is my example of service and of love. I hope I honored him by my service to my country and comrades.All right, that's enough. I deploy this evening and have to drop this letter off at the shelter. I don't think I'll say another good-bye to Tank, though. I cried too much the first time. Maybe I'll peek in on him and see if he finally got that third tennis ball in his mouth.Good luck with Tank. Give him a good home, and give him an extra kiss goodnight – every night – from me.

Once upon a time there was a veryrich man called Mpunzi. He had awife and one daughter calledNosisa. Mpunzi wanted a son, buthe and his wife could not have anymore children. Mpunzi blamed hiswife for not giving him a son. Hebullied his wife and treated her likea child. One day Mpunzi was very angry andhe hit his wife with a stick. She ranaway back to her family. She leftwith a sad heart because Mpunzidid not let her take Nosisa with her.Mpunzi bullied his daughter in thesame way he bullied his wife.Nosisa lived a very sad life. Mpunzi decided to marry anotherwife. He hoped that the new wifewould give him a baby boy.Nosisa's life became even moredifficult when her father marriedagain. Mpunzi scolded her all thetime and made her serve the newwife. Nosisa worked like a slave. Mpunzi was very proud of his cattle. He used to sit outside hishomestead and watch his cattle grazing in the field. He felt verysatisfied with his wealth.Mpunzi's many servants cleaned around the homestead, andlooked after his goats, cattle and sheep. They milked the cows forfresh milk that Mpunzi sold to other villagers.  Mpunzi loved his new wife verymuch. He treated her like a queen.She sat inside her hut all day andgave orders to Nosisa and theservants. Nosisa woke up earlyevery day to make tea for herstepmother. She cleaned her hutand cooked for her, but herstepmother always complained thather food was cold, her tea wasweak, and her hut was not clean. One day Mpunzi became very angry at Nosisa. Hescolded her and hit her with a stick. Nosisa ran off tothe river where she sat and cried the wholeafternoon.Suddenly she heard a voice coming out of the river.She looked up and saw a big fish. The voice wascoming from the fish. Nosisa was so shocked shealmost ran away, but the fish stopped her. "Pleasedon't run away my daughter, I am your mother. Ihave changed myself into a fish so that your fatherdoes not know it's me." "What is the matter?" asked thefish. Nosisa told the fish everythingabout her sad life. "Don't worry mygirl. I will bring you food every day,"said the fish. The fish gave freshvegetables to Nosisa. She had afeast. When she looked up the fishwas gone. That day Nosisa wenthome smiling. She would not haveto go to bed without food as usual. Nosisa went to the river every day. In the morningshe woke up as usual and did her chores around thehouse. At midday, she went to the river. She calledout every time, and every time the fish would appearwith delicious food. Nosisa became happier andhappier. She could talk to the fish about anything.She started to regain her health. Her skin wasglowing and she was a happy child. Nosisa visited the fish every day until her stepmotherbecame suspicious. Nosisa had gained weight andshe was glowing. "Something is going on at the river,I must find out what it is," thought the stepmother.One afternoon she followed Nosisa to the river. Shesaw Nosisa talking to the fish, and getting deliciousfood. Nosisa's secret was out. "I have to dosomething about this fish," said the stepmother. In the evening, Mpunzi came back from the fields. Hefound his new wife crying in her hut. "What is wrongmy lovely wife," asked Mpunzi."I went to a traditional doctor," said the wife. "Hetold me that the only way for me to give you a son isto eat the biggest fish that lives in this nearby river,"she said. "Will you catch the fish for me tonight?"pleaded the woman."I will do anything for you my beautiful wife," saidMpunzi. Mpunzi set off to the river before it was too dark. Hetook his servants to help him find the biggest fish inthat river. They searched and searched andeventually Mpunzi caught the biggest fish. He put itin a bag and went home with it. When he got to thehouse, there was a good hot fire ready to cook thefish."I will make the best meal ever for us," said thewoman to Mpunzi. "You are the bravest andstrongest man I know."Mpunzi was very pleased with himself. That night Mpunzi and his wife went to bed happyafter their delicious meal. They left the bones on thetable for Nosisa to clean in the morning.When Nosisa brought coffee into their hut in themorning they were still sleeping. "This is verystrange," she thought to herself. "My father usuallywakes up very early in the morning to go to thefields. I wonder why he is still sleeping." "Anyway, now I can run to the river for a nicebreakfast," she thought. Nosisa ran to the river.When she got there she called out to the fish, andshe called again and again. The fish never came.Nosisa started to cry. She did not know what hadhappened to the fish.While she was crying a bird came to sit next to herand told her what had happened. She cried harderthinking that her mother had been caught and eaten. The bird told her to collect the fish bones from thetable and throw them back into the river. If she didthat the fish would come back to life. The bird alsotold her to let her father and stepmother sleep andwake them up only at midday. Nosisa did as she wastold. She ran back home and walked quietly into herfather's hut. They were still fast asleep. She took thebones, put them inside a bag and threw them backinto the river. Nosisa ran back home and just before midday shewoke her father and stepmother. She could hardlyrecognise them. They looked old and grey and frail.They were too old to scold her. They were too weakto hit her. They were too tired to look after thehomestead.So, Nosisa took over the homestead and her father'swealth. She called all the servants and told themwhat had happened. They prepared a feast and therewas peace at the homestead from that day on.

Keshav Mukherjee was having an extremely frustrating day. He had forgotten his glasses at home and gone to work. He had forgotten to lay his wares out the previous night. Hehad not remembered to tell his wife to make aloo parathas for breakfast (he was extremely fond of them). He had messed up and misplaced his belongings numerous times and felt perfectly awful. On the whole, he was feeling downcast and unusually irritable. "Bhai, how much is this lungi for?" Asked a passerby to Keshav Mukherjee. Annoyed that he had been interrupted from his daydream, Keshav looked up at the customer. "Forty rupees", he replied in his gruff voice. "How about twenty five?" Bargained the customer. This was a usual haggle, and Keshav was used to it. However, he was not as patient and cheerful about it today, as he usually was. "Fine then!", he roared at the customer. "Take it and get out of here!". People passing by stopped and stared. They had never seen such a commotion occur before in the quiet and serene village of Sultanpur. Ladies stopped to whisper behind their hands. Men flexed their muscles to show that they could participate if needed. Almost the whole village of Sultanpur gathered around Keshav's daily needs shop 'Har Din ka Sapna'. " GET LOST I SAY!", he screamed at the crowd. Suddenly, a baby started crying and the crowd slowly dispersed. The customer also flung the money down and rushed away, lungi in mid-air. Breathing heavily, Keshav packed up his wares and left the marketplace. "Was that you screaming?". Asked his wife timidly. "Hmph", he snorted, "What's for dinner?", he asked. "But dear, you have to give me the money to buy the vegetables fordinner.", said his wife. Keshav fished into his pocket and brought out the twenty five rupees that he had earned that day. It was not enough to buy even the flour for their daily bread. "Well never mind dear", said his kind hearted wife. "I shall check if there is some money in my purse." Keshav felt terrible as he watched his wife take out her own hard earned money from her purse. He knew how much she liked to spend it on dresses and bangles for theirdaughters, Malika and Meena. That night, when the family sat down to dinner, Malika piped up, "Ma, papa, why are we just having dry roti and sabji? Ma promised that we could have samosas, parathas, and lots more. Keshav opened his mouth, to tell his wife off for making empty promises to the kids, but stopped himself in the nick of time. After all, it was him who had promised his daughtersto bring home lots of dolls for them from the market. Thank goodness they had forgotten about that. Just as all these swam in his head, Malika suddenly said, "Papa, you hadpromised to bring us lots of dolls today!" "Children, don't trouble your father so, he has had a hard day at work. Now if you finish your food quickly, I shall read you a bedtime story." Said Ranjani(his wife). Meena andMalika cleared their plates, and went after their mother. Keshav too, went to bed. The next day dawned bright and beautiful. Keshav woke up in a good mood, amd set off for work. He reached the market and laid out his wares. But, alas! No matter how bright and welcoming his wares were, no one was interested in them. This was extremely strange, as everyday at least a couple of customers would check out his wares during the morning time. Keshav sat down and pondered over this. He had flared up yesterday, and so the result was that nobody had anything to do with him. He knew that he had not meant to do anything serious, but he had no way to explain this to anyone. Just then, a beggar in rags came up to him. Keshav did not usually entertain beggars, but he scrutinized this one carefully. He seemed genuine. "Bhaisab, may I have this toy train? My son has been worrying me for one for a long time. I am not able to afford one for him. How much is it for?" "Eighty rupees", replied Keshav. The beggar extended his hand it was full of coins worth fifteen rupees. Keshav handed him the toy but did not take any money. "You need it more than I do", he said to the beggar. "And take an extra twenty rupees from me. It will be needed." Apasserby heard this conversation, and hastened off to tell it to his wife. His wife in turn, gossiped about it to her friends and soon, the whole village of Sultanpur knew what had happened. Soon everyone started coming to his shop once more. They realised that under this fierce personality, lay a warm and truthful heart.

"Shhhu!" says Grandmother. "It's so hot! And this pot is so heavy.Let's sit in the shade of the tree and rest a bit."She wipes the sweat from her face and makes herself comfortableamong the arms of the roots. Selma stands with her hand on thesmooth skin of the baobab while her brother, Toivo, walks roundthe trunk to see how wide it is. "This tree is very old, isn't it,Grandmother?""Yes, Selma, it is. But it is not as old, or as big as the tree at thevillage of Ombalantu!""Ombalantu? The village near here?" asks Selma."Please tell us about the tree there," begs Toivo."Then sit and listen," says Grandmother and she begins her story. There was once a girl called Thaimi who lived in the village ofOmbalantu. One day she went with her brother, Angula, to fetchwater. While Thaimi was filling her pot Angula saw a hare. He ranafter it. He ran and ran and ran - but do you think he could catchthat hare? He could not. The hare was too quick for him.Thaimi's pot was full and she was ready to go home. She lookedaround but she could not see Angula. She did not know where hehad gone. But, she did know that she couldn't go home withouther little brother. So she set out to look for him. She walked andshe walked and she walked.At last she found him lying in the grass behind a large anthill. Asshe came close he held his finger to his lips. Why did he want herto be quiet? Close by a group of strange men were resting. Themen had bows and arrows...and spears! Thaimi could hear theirvoices."Angula," she whispered, after she had listened for a bit. "Thosemen are raiders. They have come to steal our cattle and burn ourvillage. Come quickly. We must run home and warn the village." Sovery quietly Thaimi and Angula crept away from that place. Andran towards their village. When they were near their village they met their uncle. He wastaking his cow to the water. Thaimi called out, "Run, uncle, run!Men are coming to steal our cattle and burn our village."The man shouted at his cow and made her run towards the village.Further on Thaimi saw her aunt working in the field and she calledout, "Run, aunt, run! Men are coming to steal our cattle and burnour village!"And the woman took her hoe, picked up her sleeping baby and rantowards the village.Further on Thaimi saw her grandfather. He was limping along theroad beside a donkey loaded with grain.And she called out, "Run, Grandfather, run! Men are coming tosteal our cattle and burn our village!"Her grandfather lifted his stick and chased the donkey until it rantowards the village. And so Thaimi and her brother reached the village. And she calledout to everyone, "Run, run. Men are coming to steal our cattle andburn our village!"The villagers were scared. They ran backwards and forwards likeants when a heap is trodden on by a cow.They did not know where to hide or what to do.Where could they hide their cattle?Where could they hide their grain?Where could they hide themselves?Thaimi was very frightened. Then she remembered something.She remembered the place where she and Angula sometimes wentto play.A safe place.A secret place. "I have a place!" she cried. "I know a place where we will all besafe!"But the villagers could not hear her. They were making too muchnoise. How could she make the villagers listen to her? What do youthink Thaimi did?She picked up a drum and began to hit it as hard as she could."Bam Bam Bam Boom Boom Boom."All the villagers stopped.Thaimi called out, "I have a place to hide. Follow me."She took Angula by the arm."Come, we'll take everyone to our tree. We will all be safe there!"Her brother shook his head."No, Thaimi. That is our secret. You said we must never tellanyone.""Yes", she said. "It was a secret. But now we are all in danger."Thaimi and Angula led the way to a baobab tree which stoodnearby. Nobody could understand why. "Why have you brought us here? We cannot hide here," they said.Then Thaimi said to her father, "Come. I'll show you." Theyclimbed to the top of the tree. There was a small opening.Thaimi and her father slid down into the big trunk. It was hollow. Itwas huge. "But all the people can't come in through such a smallhole," said her father."No," said Thaimi. "Bring axes and we will make an opening in thetrunk." And that is what they did. They cut an opening in the sideof the tree. Some villagers collected the grain and the pots.Others collected the goats, the sheep and the cattle. They allmade their way through the opening into the great hollow insidethe baobab tree.And the strange thing was that there was room for everyone. The sun went down. It grew dark and the night was quiet and cold.The raiders crept up towards the village. It was dark. "Everyonemust be asleep," they said.Inside the great tree the villagers waited.What was going to happen?They were cold. They were hungry. And they were afraid.Then Thaimi said, "It's cold. Let's make a fire." And she took twostones and struck them together. The sparks caught the grass andsmall flames flared.Soon a bright warm fire was burning. Outside the raiders crept closer and closer.Then suddenly one of them gave a cry and pointed to the tree.Light flamed from the tree. Fiery eyes shone from the trunk. Brighttongues licked the branches. Smoke curled into the sky."It's a great spirit!" they cried in fear. First one raider turned andran. Then another, and another. Until they had all run away. Thepeople of the village of Ombalantu were saved. Grandmother is silent.Selma touches the smooth skin ofthe baobab."So it was the tree that saved themall," she says.

Yusuf was a bus conductor. He wasn't highly educated, nor was he extremely pious. He was a simple guy who loved his family. He was hardworking and a simple person. A typical day for him meant getting up early, completing his religious prayers, helping his wife with some chores, and depending on his duty shifts either dropping or picking the children from school. He was a private man. He lived in a ‘basti' in Mumbai, and harbored dreams that his children should be well educated and get good jobs. He had friends from all religions and he never considered his two daughters any less than a boy.Yusuf didn't read many religious books nor did he consider himself a scholar of Quran, but believed Allah blessed people who worked hard and helped others and lived by this ethos. So at times he would buy a ticket for a rag picker who looked too tired to walk home or calm down a crying school girl when she realized she forgot the bus money at home. He did such small gestures as and when possible. He called them ‘Neki ka khazana'.One day Yusuf was on the night duty. It was their last run before the bus would be driven into the bus depot and the driver and Yusuf could go home. As it was a night run and the route on which their bus plied was majorly empty and lonely they did not expect many passengers. The few passengers that had gotten into the bus at the start of the journey got down. The driver said “Now if we don't get any more passengers we might be at the depot in the next half an hour” Yusuf agreed and was happy as it was a holiday next day and he had promised his daughters to take them to Chowpaty. As the driver and Yusuf chit chatted about the plans next day, they saw the lights of a car blinking away at a distance. The driver slowed the bus as they reached near the car and they saw a young girl peering over the open bonnet. Yusuf asked the driver to stop and asked the girl “Kya hua madam? Gaadi shuru nahi ho rahi aapki?” (What's the matter? Did your car break down?) She looked up and nodded and said “My vehicle broke down and I am waiting for an auto or a cab to come by” Yusuf informed her that this part of the road was usually empty at nights and she might not find an auto or cab. He asked her to get in the bus and they could drop her till the depot which was in the heart of the city, from where getting a cab or rickshaw would be easier. She looked uneasily at the empty bus, but realized she had no other alternative. She got into the bus cautiously. Yusuf realized her uneasiness and said casually, she should inform someone at home about her problem and the fact that she and the fact that she is boarding a bus. He even offered their depot address and phone number for her relatives to contact.She felt reassured by his thoughtfulness and smile. She settled down and the bus started down the lonely strench. Just as they crossed a party lawn two young men got into the bus. They seemed to be a little drunk. As they got into the bus, they eyed the girl sitting at the back. They smiled at each other and started making way towards the seat where she was sitting. Yusuf and the driver knew these men could mean trouble. Yusuf quickly got in the way and said “Pehle ticket nikalo phir baitane jao” (First take the tickets and then go) As the men fumbled with their wallets, he addressed the girl “Beti tum bhi aake ticket le lo” (You too come here and buy the ticket) The girl realized that Yusuf was asking her to sit at the front of the bus near the driver and open door. She quietly made her way past the men and sat in front. He then told the men to go sit at the back. As they protested and started acting rude, Yusuf and driver stole a quick look and he simply said “The smell of the liquor makes the driver vomit and we don't want an ill driver on this empty road!”As the driver drove the bus in full speed, Yusuf said a quick prayer and stood between the boys and the girl. The rest of the journey was uneventful and they reached the depot in the next 20 minutes. As all got down, the girl saw someone who had come to pick her up. She thanked the driver and Yusuf and quickly made her way to the waiting car.The next morning, Yusuf saw a number of calls from the bus depot. He called back and was informed to reach the depot in half an hour. He got worried and hurriedly got ready to reach the depot. As he reached the depot, he saw his friend the driver from earlier night pacing around impatiently. As he saw Yusuf he said “Even you have been Just as they were discussing the possible reason for such urgent summons, they saw the girl from the earlier night smiling and coming towards them. “Hello my name is Aalia. I am a reporter with People's Voice newspaper. I would like to take your interview.” Yusuf asked “Madamji hamara interview kyu?” (Why take our interview?) Aalia said “We are so used to reading about unruly drivers, rude conductors that drivers and conductors are seen with a preconceived notion of being repugnant or at the least impolite. You changed my attitude yesterday and now I want the world to know my story and see you all in the same light.” I just want to know what made you do what you did yesterday. Yusuf and the driver just smiled and said “Madamji we did not do anything great. We have children, wives and sisters. It's just something any decent man would have done” Yusuf added “My daughters too go on their own to school or tuitions. I can't be with them always, but I believe if I help someone with my deeds Allah ensures thatthere is someone to look out for my daughters as well! Neki ka khazana kabhi zaaya nahi hota.”

In the busy city of Nairobi, far away from a caring life at home, lived a group of homeless boys. They welcomed each day just as it came.On one morning, the boys were packing their mats after sleeping on cold pavements. To chase away the cold they lit a fire with rubbish.Among the group of boys was Magozwe. He was the youngest. When Magozwe's parents died, he was only five years old. He went to live with his uncle. This man did not care about the child. He did not give Magozwe enough food. He made the boy do a lot of hard work. If Magozwe complained or questioned, his uncle beat him. When Magozwe asked if he could go to school, his uncle beat him and said, "You're too stupid to learn anything."After three years of this treatment Magozwe ran away from his uncle. He started living on the street. Street life was difficult and most of the boys struggled daily just to get food. Sometimes they were arrested, sometimes they were beaten. When they were sick, there was no one to help.The group depended on the little money they got from begging, and from selling plastics and other recycling.Life was even more difficult because of fights with rival groups who wanted control of parts of the city. One day while Magozwe was looking through the dustbins, he found an old tattered storybook. He cleaned the dirt from it and put it in his sack.Every day after that he would take out the book and look at the pictures. He did not know how to read the words. The pictures told the story of a boy who grew up to be a pilot.Magozwe would daydream of being a pilot. Sometimes, he imagined that he was the boy in the story. It was cold and Magozwe was standing on the road begging. A man walked up to him. "Hello, I'm Thomas. I work near here, at a place where you can get something to eat," said the man.He pointed to a yellow house with a blue roof. "I hope you will go there to get some food?" he asked.Magozwe looked at the man, and then at the house. "Maybe," he said, and walked away. Over the months that followed, the homeless boys got used to seeing Thomas around. He liked to talk to people, especially people living on the streets.Thomas listened to the stories of people's lives. He was serious and patient, never rude or disrespectful. Some of the boys started going to the yellow and blue house to get food at midday. Magozwe was sitting on the pavement looking at his picture book when Thomas sat down next to him."What is the story about?" asked Thomas."It's about a boy who becomes a pilot," replied Magozwe."What's the boy's name?" asked Thomas."I don't know, I can't read," said Magozwe quietly. When they met, Magozwe began to tell his own story to Thomas. It was the story of his uncle and why he ran away.Thomas didn't talk a lot, and he didn't tell Magozwe what to do, but he always listened carefully.Sometimes they would talk while they ate at the house with the blue roof. Around Magozwe's tenth birthday, Thomas gave him a new storybook. It was a story about a village boy who grew up to be a famous soccer player.Thomas read that story to Magozwe many times, until one day he said, "I think it's time you went to school and learned to read. What do you think?" Thomas explained that he knew of a place where children could stay, and go to school. Magozwe thought about this new place, and about going to school. What if his uncle was right and he was too stupid to learn anything?What if they beat him at this new place? He was afraid. "Maybe it is better to stay living on the street," he thought. He shared his fears with Thomas. Over time the man reassured the boy that life could be better at the new place. And so Magozwe moved into a room in a house with a green roof. He shared the room with two other boys.Altogether there were ten children living at that house. Along with Auntie Cissy and her husband, three dogs, a cat, and an old goat. Magozwe started school and it was difficult. He had a lot to catch up. Sometimes he wanted to give up.But he thought about the pilot and the soccer player in the storybooks. Like them, he did not give up. Magozwe was sitting in the yard at the house with the green roof, reading a storybook from school. Thomas came up and sat next to him."What is the story about?" asked Thomas."It's about a boy who becomes a teacher," replied Magozwe."What's the boy's name?" asked Thomas."His name is Magozwe," said Magozwe with a smile.

### Cast* Rita* Rakesh* Yash* Sheela* RohanA gang of friends between the ages of 11 and 14. * Vikram* Yamdoot* Yamraja* WatchmanVikram - very popular in the gang, captain of their cricket team.Yamdoot - Yamraja's messenger, has been instructed by Yamraja to bring Vikram to him.Yamraja - God of death, but here he is shown to be funny and childish, loves watching TV.Watchman - Stands outside Yamraja's palace and guards it.### Backstage* Set Design Team* Costume Design Team* Light and Sound Designers* Prop Makers* Chorus### The making of this playIt is great fun to be able to act and direct plays on your own. When Meera Dixit was looking for a contemporary play that could be enjoyable as well as easy to perform by students, she could not find the right one for the situation. So she wrote this play which her students could stage without professional help. It was first staged in 2011 and has been a big hit with students every time it has been performed.### Designing the costumes for Yamraja and YamdootBe creative. Use paper, newspaper, thermacol and other material available in school to create the settings.This play works well with three settings - the garden where the characters first meet, an indoor room, and Yamraja's durbar. Three of the characters need specific costumes, or just headgear and jewellery to set them apart from the other characters. They could wear beaded necklaces and head gear made out of papier mache.### Music and dramaMake up a jingle or a chorus. A few singers could sing these with musical accompaniments from the wings to set the mood for a scene, or to add drama to important moments in the play.### No permission neededYou must have observed that at the end of most plays in books, there is a line that states that you need the permission of the playwright to stage the play. However, to stage this play you need not do so as it is copyright-free. This means you can stage the play as you wish. Feel free to incorporate new ideas.### Scene 1When the curtain opens, there are a few children on stage, in a garden setting. They are discussing something.__Rita:__ Hey, have you heard about Vikram? It seems he has malaria. No wonder he had such a high fever!__Rakesh:__ Yes, I heard about it. I spoke to his mother yesterday. She said that he is finally being treated with the right medicines.__Sheela:__ Poor fellow, how on earth is he going to write his exams now?__Yash:__ Silly girl, how can he be a poor fellow? Lucky he can't write the exams. How I envy him! No studying, no tension, no mother breathing down his neck. Just lie there waiting to get better... Poor fellow, my foot. _(Going near Rita)_ Look at me, all I do is study all day.__Rita:__ _(laughs)_ Naturally you have to study all day. How will you pass otherwise, stupid?__Yash:__ Don't you have anything better to do than to pull my leg? Wait till I tell the gang about what you did the other day! You know, she... _(Rita stops him.)___Rita:__ Sh! Sh! If you say anything more I will...__Rohan:__ Oh no! The third world war is about to begin. You two never give up, do you?__Yash:__ It's her, she is so.. so.. so... irritating! Just because she studies well she thinks no end of herself.__Rita:__ I don't give up! Ha! It's Yash who starts the fight, not me.__Rohan:__ Stop it, you two! You're worse than kids. Hurry up, don't you remember we have to go and see Vikram?_(Yash and Rita are making faces at one another. All depart from one wing of the stage. Return to the stage from another wing)_.### Scene 2_(This is Vikram's home. The children can hear Vikram speaking to an unfamiliar voice. As they enter they can see that Vikram is talking to someone. This person is dressed weirdly, and looks like a mythological character. He is Yamdoot, Yamraj's messenger.)___Yamdoot:__ _(Yamdoot is talking to Vikram who is lying on his bed)_ Come on child. I am Yamdoot and you must come with me. _(Takes out something from his pocket.)_ See, it says here clearly that your expiry date has come, my dear. So you will now have to say good bye to the world and come with me to my world. __Vikram:__ _(Looks confused)_ What do you mean come with me to my world? Who, may I know, has sent you? _(pointing to the paper)_ And what is that?_(Vikram is trying to look at the paper, Yamdoot is trying to pull him out of the bed and all the while gazing at the clock. The children are watching all this and are trying to figure out what is happening)_.__Vikram:__ Hey! What are you doing? Why are you trying to lift me? Listen...__Yamdoot:__ I am Yamdoot, Yamraj's messenger. And, I do not have to listen to you. I only listen to my boss. Understood? Come on, get up! _(looks at his paper)_ We have to leave. Once I hand you over to Yamraj, I have an immediate appointment in Delhi. You see, we Yamdoots are very busy these days.Hey, _(goes very close to Vikram)_ let me tell you something. I love to work overtime, we get paid well for that. But enough is enough. We have to leave now kiddo, too much overtime is not good either. _(He is about to drag Vikram out and leave when the children decide to take action.)___Yash:__ _(steps out and stops him)_ Hey, who are you and what are you doing?__Sheela:__ Yes, tell us....__Rita:__ _(Walks around Yamdoot, looking very official)_ So you call yourself Yamdoot. And where do you think you are taking Vikram? _(Yamdoot has a firm grip on Vikram's hand)___Vikram:__ _(looking surprised)_ Hello all of you!__Rakesh:__ Hi! How are you feeling now, Vikram?__Vikram:__ Better, much better. But never mind me. Meet my visitor who calls himself Yamdoot. _(Yamdoot glares)_He says Yamraj has ordered him to take me to his abode.__Rakesh:__ He is going to take you? Where? _(looks up)___Sheila:__ This is too much!__Rohan:__ Yamdoot, whom are you taking with you? Him? _(points to Vikram)_ Without our permission? How dare you!__Yash:__ _(Putting his hand on Yamdoot's shoulder)_ Listen Yambhaiyya. This is Vikram, our best friend and the head of our gang.__Sheela:__ _(Shoving Yash aside)_ Also the captain of our cricket team!__Rakesh:__ All right. So he has malaria. That does not mean that you can pick him up and take him away.__Rita:__ This is simply not acceptable! It's sheer dadagiri!__Rohan:__ This is not dadagiri. This is Yamgiri my dear. Yamgiri!_(By now Yamdoot is thoroughly irritated, and very confused. He is touching his moustache knowing full well that if he does not take Vikram to Yamraj all hell will break loose. The very idea is frightening and he looks worried.)___Yash:__ Nothing doing Yambhai. You cannot take Vikram with you and that's final. _(tries to pull Vikram towards him, Yamdoot does likewise.)___Yamdoot:__ I am very confused.__Rakesh:__ We can see that. _(laughs)_ Anyway, one thing is definite. Vikram is not going anywhere. Is that clear?__Rohan:__ How can you just take him like that?__Yash:__ You need to have some sense to understand things. _(Yamdoot puts his hands to his head, getting quite angry)___Yamdoot:__ Hey Bhagwan! _(Realizes his mistake)_ Yamraj what do I do now? Why don't these kids understand that Vikram has to go with me.Come, we are getting very late. _(Pulls him. Rohan stands in front of them like a shield. Holds on to Yamdoot.)___Yamdoot:__ _(Upset)_ What shall I do with you now?__Rohan:__ Whatever you want. I am all yours.__Yash:__ _(Laughs)_ Ya, so what was Rakesh telling you my friend?__Yamdoot:__ Me?__Yash:__ Yes you.__Rohan:__ We were telling you that this is the 21st century and this is India.__Sheela:__ And malaria is not a deadly disease here any longer. __Rohan:__ Besides, there are medicines available now to cure malaria which Vikram is taking.__Sheela:__ It is only a matter of time before he gets better. Here, look at his medicines _(Drags Yamdoot to the medicines. He is worried.)___Vikram:__ Yes, see these are my tablets. And my fever is almost gone.__Rita:__ There you go. He is going to be fit and fine in just a few days. _(Stamps her foot by mistake on Yamdoot's foot.)___Yamdoot:__ Awww...__Sheela:__ Anyway, now you know that in India malaria is a curable disease. So how can you take him away?__Rakesh:__ Go find another target.__Yamdoot:__ Ha! How can Vikram get better? _(Takes out the paper)_ Look at the expiry date. It is now. So stop all your nonsense. _(Shoves the kids away.)_ I must leave with him. He has to die._(The kids start beating Yamdoot)___Yash:__ If anybody has to die it is YOU not him. _(pointing to Vikram)___Yamdoot:__ Oh god.. please stop beating me! Are your fists made of iron! Oh stop... I'm dying!__Yash:__ Oh, this was just a sample of what is to come. Do you want to see what is in store for you?__Yamdoot:__ No, no! _(in a pitiable voice)___Rohan:__ _(Holding Yamdoot)_ Alright. But only on one condition. Vikram goes no where. Or else... _(raised hand)___Yamdoot:__ That is not possible. He has to go with me. If I do not produce him in Yamraj's darbar, I will lose my job. How will I run my house then? How expensive things have become...__Sheela:__ Who cares about your job!__Rita:__ Fine. If you insist on taking Vikram, you can.__Yamdoot:__ Really? _(eyes lit up)___Rakesh:__ Yes, but only on one condition. If you take him you have to take all of us too...__Sheela:__ ...as we want to meet this Yamraj.__Rakesh:__ Yes, we want to meet him. Who is he to decide that just because Vikram has malaria he must be taken away?_(They all surround Yamdoot shouting slogans. By now Yamdoot is at his wit's end. He knows that now he has no choice.)___Chorus:__ Down with bullies! Down, down bullies!__Yamdoot:__ Ok, let's all go. But please stop hitting me. See how red my cheeks have become! Let Yamraj decide what to do next. Let's go. _(Everybody departs from the stage.)_ ### Scene 3_(They now enter Yamraj's darbar. They are continuously screaming and shouting. There is a gate keeper standing there.)___Gatekeeper:__ Hoi! _(Sees Yamdoot)_ Ah! Yamdoot ji, why have you picked up so many children? _(Looks at something that looks like a register)_You were supposed to bring only one child but you seem to have brought a whole cricket team. Your math was always a little weak. _(Gatekeeper smiles to himself)___Yamdoot:__ Oh god, here I am almost dead, and he is teasing me?! Do you think I am stupid? _(to the gatekeeper)_ Can't you see? Look at me! Look at my clothes, my cheeks – they are red and I am in pain. Bully!_(By now the children are getting, very impatient. They are dying to meet Yamraj. Rohan is holding on to Vikram's hand in a firm grip)___Yamdoot:__ These kids just did not want to listen to anything I said. They insisted that if I took Vikram they would come along too. And when I said no, they slapped me. Look at my cheeks.__Rohan:__ Naturally! All Vikram has is malaria and he is going to get well soon. Who is Yamraj to pick on Vikram for no reason?__Gatekeeper:__ _(Now he too looks worried)_ Sh! Sh! Don't talk so loudly. What if Yamraj hears you? No one has dared to speak about him in such a manner!__Rakesh:__ Are you letting us in or shall we....?_(they are about to pounce on the gatekeeper when Yamraj's voice can be heard from inside.)___Yamraj:__ What a lot of noise! Who is that? How dare someone disturb me! Everyone in my kingdom knows I watch cartoon network at this time. No one disturbs me at this hour!__Yamraj:__ Aaaah, so much noise! I hate noise. Send them in. ‘Down, down, Yamraj!' in my kingdom? That too in my own house? How dare they!_(Children enter Yamraj's den pushing the gatekeeper)___Gatekeeper:__ _(to the children)_ Now look what you have done! Yamraj is angry. _(A little scared)_ Sorry Maharaj, but there are some children here. They say they are from India.__Yamraj:__ Some children have come from India! Where is Yamdoot? I had asked only for one boy, Vikram, to be brought. Has Yamdoot brought him or not?__Yamdoot:__ Yes Maharaj, I have brought him. But his friends insisted on coming along too. They just would not listen to me, Maharaj. They forced me to bring them too and beat me up when I refused. Look at my cheeks, they are so red._(The kids are impatient. hey are shouting ‘Down, down, Yamraj! ‘Yamraj Hai Hai')_ ### Scene 4__Sheela:__ Eee... Yamraj! The real Yamraj! Wait till I tell everyone when we get back home!__Rohan:__ _(On seeing Yamraj)_ Wow, I can't believe this. You actually exist!__Rakesh:__ _(Puts his hand on Yamraj's shoulder. Yamraj is stunned. Nobody has had the guts to do this before.)_ Hi Yamraj, how are you?__Yamraj:__ _(Shoving his hand aside)_ Hey, hope you know who you're talking to! I am Yamraj. Yamraj. _(Stands straight)_ The whole world is afraid of me, do you understand?__Sheela:__ So what? I am Sheela, Sheela from Mumbai, India. _(The kids are discussing something with one another)___Yamraj:__ _(yelling)_ Stop it at once! I hate noise. Just tell me who among you is Vikram. Let him come forward. He should have been dead long ago. We cannot delay his death any further. We all have our targets. I want only Vikram! _(Everyone holds on to Vikram)___Rita:__ What do you mean you want Vikram? I want a Mercedes Benz. But does that mean I will get one?__Rohan:__ You don't always get what you want.__Yash:__ Well, this time you are not getting what you want. And if you want Vikram you must want us all.__Sheela:__ Buy one, get five free! You will more than meet your target. How's that?__Rita:__ Yamraj, Vikram has malaria. It's not a life threatening disease. Don't you know that? And you have the cheek to call yourself Yamraj _(laughs – Yamdoot hears the word Cheek and realizes that he is in pain.)___Chorus:__ Down, down, Yamraj!__Yamraj:__ Quiet! I can't stand noise. This is too much. _(to Yamdoot)_ Where have you picked up these many kids from? I had asked you to bring only one but this is an entire cricket team! __Yamdoot:__ Yamraj, I had gone to Vikram's house and just as I was about to take him away these kids came and insisted on coming with me. When I said I wanted only Vikram, they pounced on me and beat me up. Look at my cheeks, they are so red. They said that I could not take Vikram alone _(Yamraj is trying to pull Vikram towards him. The kids are pulling him towards them.)___Yamraj:__ These kids are from India you say?__Yamdoot:__ Yes Maharaj, these days you hear a lot about how they fight injustice. They stand united and are ready to die for a just cause.__Yamraj:__ But I have not seen any children standing up for a just cause. These kids seem special.__Yash:__ Of course we are special! Find a better excuse to pick up someone, Yamraj.__Rita:__ No way... We will not let go of Vikram and if you want him, you will have to keep us too. _(They are all talking at the same time. Yamdoot and gate keeper are stunned. Yamraj hates noise they know.)___Yamraj:__ Stop it, how many times do I have to tell you that I hate noise. Wait, _(takes out his diary)_ I have never seen kids like you before. Never seen children so loyal to one another. Hats off to all you kids from India. _(Starts to cry. The kids are amused to see him cry)___Rita:__ Yamraj is crying. I can't believe this.__Yamraj:__ _(Still sobbing.)_ Go, go before I change my mind. Take your friend and go, he will get better, he is in good hands. He is lucky to have friends like you. Go away!_(Kids are ecstatic – Long live Yamraj! they shout loudly!)_ __Yamraj:__ _(Putting his hands on his ears)_ Noise, so much noise, I hate noise. Now I get it. India is a noisy country, so naturally these kids are also a noisy lot. Hurry up and leave or else...__Vikram:__ _(Goes and hugs Yamraj)_ Thank you Yamraj! Thank you very much. You are not so bad after all _(Yamraj is too shocked even to react)___Rakesh:__ Come, lets go. Now he knows he can't mess with us!__Vikram:__ Forget it, friends! Remember, all's well that ends well. _(They depart as noisily as when they had arrived. Yamraj is too stunned to react. Yamdoot is relieved. He is drinking water and is about to leave when Yamraj catches him.)___Yamraj:__ Where are you going? Can't you do anything correctly? You messed up, so now you have to work overtime and go back to India and...__Yamdoot:__ Oh no! Not there again! _(Tries to run and gets caught. He is beaten.)___Yamraj:__ You will go to India and you will not be paid for extra work done. Understood?__Yamdoot:__ Yes, Maharaj. I will do as you say. Just don't hit me anymore. Look at my cheeks. _(Looks in a mirror)_ Red as an apple!

Aditi and Aarav love pooris.Halwa- poori, kheer-poori and shreekhand– poori. Yummy! Chhole-poori or aaloo-poori.finger-licking good!Pooris are tasty, whatever you may eat them with! The smell of pooris frying! Oh, so wonderful. The sight of pooris swimming in hot oil! One look at golden, crispy, hot, puffed pooris and Aditi and Aarav rush to get the roundest and the most puffed ones.But how does the poori puff?Is there air inside? Who fills the poori with air?Aditi and Aarav blow air into balloons, to make them puff up. Pa uses a pump to fill air in the tyre of his bicycle. But Ma doesn't seem to use any of these methods to puff the poori.She just fries them and they puff. Amazing!Aditi and Aarav decide to observe, ask questions and find answersthe next time pooris are made at home. Pa has put some whole-wheat flour in a big dish. He adds a little oil and some salt and starts mixing water into the flour.How come the flour is absorbing the water readily?Well, the reason is, something in the wheat flour is very thirsty! When you are thirsty what do you do? You drink water.Gliadin and Glutenin are the two types of proteins in the wheat. Proteins and all other chemical substances are made up of tiny units called molecules. The molecules in these proteins are very thirsty.As soon as water is put in the flour, these molecules drink it. Then they become big and fat. They expand. Naturally, they don't have enough space to sit comfortably. So they touch and push each other. They actually stick to each other. Sometimes, you hold each other's hand and make a chain while playing.The whole chain then moves about. Similarly, these molecules stick together and form a network. Pa has made dough out of the flour. He asks Ma to knead the dough some more. She smears some oil on her palm and starts kneading. You need strong hands to knead the dough. She says if the dough is notkneaded the pooris won't puff.How are these two related?Here is the secret.When you knead the dough, the molecules that are stuck to each other, Now start stretching. When this stretching is complete, a new protein is formed. It is called Gluten. Gluten is elastic like a rubber band and so we can give any shape to that dough.Ma has left the dough aside for some time. She is now preparing the kheer. Aditi and Aarav decide to come back when she starts rolling the pooris. Now Ma and Pa are ready. Ma has poured oil in the frying pan and has put it on the stove. She pinches off a small amount of dough, and rollsit into a poori. Pa slides the poori into the hot oil. In minutes, the poori has puffed. How did that happen? Here is what happens to the poori. The rolling is possible due to the Gluten in the dough. When the small piece of dough is rolled, a Gluten sheet is formed in the poori.When the poori is put in the hot oil, its lower surface becomes very hot due to the oil.Do you remember that water was used for making the dough? So, due to the high temperature, the water in the poori turns into steam. This steam is very powerful and it lifts up the sheet of Gluten. And that is why the poori puffs.Pa now turns the poori so that the other surface also turns golden. He has taken the poori out of the pan and kept it in a dish. Now with the help of a fork let us make a hole in a poori.See the steam oozing out? So the puffed poori doesn't contain air. It has steam in it, right? Why are the pooris used for bhel-poori, aloo–dahi-poori not puffed?There could be three reasons:If the poori is rolled very thin, there is not sufficient water in it for steam to form and for the pressure to build up so that the poori can puff.Sometimes after the pooris are rolled, thin holes are made in them with a fork so that while frying, whatever steam is created, it comes out of the holes and does not let the poori puff. Such flat pooris can be used for longer.Also if pooris are fried at low temperatures, steam forms very slowly, pressure does not build up and the poori does not puff.Now you know why some pooris puff up, and why some pooris don't! Experiment to get gluten from wheat flourMake dough using wheat flour and water. Use only adequate amount of water so that the dough would not be too hard or too soft.Use the lower portion of the palm and knead the dough for few minutes. If necessary, little oil can be used so that the dough does not stick to your palm. Leave the dough covered for about ten minutes.Now take a big bowl and put the dough in it after kneading it for few minutes again.Pour water on the dough in the bowl so that it is completely immersed in water. Continue kneading the dough in water till the water becomes white. Throw the water out and put fresh water in the bowl.Repeat the procedure till you observe that a small portion of the dough now remains which when kneaded water does not turn white.This means all the starch from the dough is removed and only gluten has remained. This is because starch dissolves in water but gluten does not.Take out the small portion of the dough which is gluten. You can stretch it like a rubber band. If you stretch it and leave it comes back to original state. This demonstrates the elasticity in it. You can spread it horizontally. This demonstrates the plasticity in it. Poori facts from historyAccording to scientists, wild wheat originated first in middle east countries about 11,000 years ago.According to the world's first encyclopedia‘Abhilashitarth chintamani' or Manasollaswritten in 12th century by King Someshwar,something similar to poori was made at that time but was called as pahalika. So poori is at least 800 years old.Excavation done near Damaskas in Syria revealed wheat dated back 9000 years. Tools necessary for planting and harvesting wheat plants and also for grinding wheat were found at the same sight. CAN YOU FIND OUT?Can pooris be made from jowar, bajra or rice flour? Why?Apart from pooris, what are the other things we make using wheat flour?What happens if you put too much water in the flour?What happens when you use other methods of cooking flour such as in a tandoor or on a tawa?

Sarla liked to watch birds fly.One day, during science class, she looked out of the window and saw an eagle gliding in the sky. How happy the bird must be! She also liked to see planes flying.“Here, what's your name? Should you not be looking at the board?” asked the new teacher in Sarla's class.Sarla got up hastily and said, “Sorry Madam, I was watching an eagle. I wish we could fly like a bird, or like an aeroplane....”“What is your name?”“Sarla.” “Oh how nice! Do you know that Sarla was the name of the first Indian women pilot too? My name, Hamsa, means a swan. Swans are one of the largest flying birds, you know,” said the teacher. “You must spend some time in the library, Sarla. I'm sure there are many books about birds and flights, and machines that fly like aeroplanes.”Over the next few days, Sarla happily learnt a lot about birds, and about aeroplanes. Sarla learnt that human beings can fly too, but not like birds. We can fly to any city in the world in an aeroplane, one of mankind's greatest inventions.With the help of this great machine, we can also experience the joy of being airborne. Birds are aerial creatures that do not need an external machine to fly. Usually, a bird's wings are bigger than the rest of its body. The wings are very light, making it possible for birds to fly. Aeroplanes are huge and very heavy. Just like birds, aeroplanes have wings on both their sides which help them to fly. The wings of the plane are shaped just like those of birds - curved on the top and flat on the bottom which helps them to fly high up in the sky. Birds flap their wings to fly, but of course we have never seen an aeroplane flapping its wings! Birds flap their wings as they use the wind to push their body upwards.Aeroplanes also fly with the help of the force of the wind. This machine uses the engine inside its body to create wind that flows below the plane. An engine is a very strong machine which acts like the brain of the plane. Just like a bird uses its mind and logic to navigate its flight, engines help planes to push them above the ground and to help them move forward. When the plane's engines burn fuel, they release hot gases at high speeds which push on the air behind the engine, moving the plane forward. Cars and other vehicles with engines move forward too. But they cannot go up in the sky like planes. The wind flows over and under their wings which are shaped like birds' wings and lifts the plane into the sky and keeps it there.Planes also have tails, just like birds, to keep them steady and help them change direction.ٴ Planes need big long roads to take off and land. These long roads are called runways and planes need to travel very fast on the runway before they can take off into the air. Planes need to gain a lot of speed to lift off in the air.Most aeroplanes can take off only if they are moving fast enough. The runway is an important part of the airport as it gives aeroplanes enough time to increase their speed and ultimately take off. Planes know where they have to go because they are steered by pilots. The pilots control the plane from a place in the front of the aeroplane called the cockpit. They keep in contact with the airport (a place from where the planes take off and land) through very accurate and modern devices. Just like there are signals and police to help us on the roads, there are air traffic controllers who tell pilots when and where to fly; and when it is safe to take off or land.A plane is actually a giant bird. It is not only shaped like a bird, it also allows us to fly, though not like birds! Sarla wants to be a pilot and fly aeroplanes when she grows up. Did You Know?India's first aircraft was the Harlow which first flew in July 1941.The first pilot license in India was awarded to JRD Tata in February 1929 by the Aero Club of India and Burma. The fastest jet aircraft in the world is the Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird which flies at a speed faster than the speed of sound.Sarla Thakral was the first Indian woman to fly an aircraft. She was also the first woman pilot to accumulate over 1000 hours of flying. Let's take off!Have fun with friends with these activities:1. Make paper planes and see whose plane goes the farthest. Is it the paper or the way it has been made that makes a paper plane go faster? Observe what happens when each plane is launched. Is there a difference if you blow over, or into or under the plane before you shoot it off?2. Fly-Don't fly Game: Get a group of friends to 'fly' around the room, without touching each other. The den stands in a corner and calls out the names of flying or non-flying objects. When a non-flying object (like table) is called, the 'planes' must 'land' (sit down). Whoever makes a mistake is the next den.

Tooka and Poi love collecting things. Smooth pebbles from the riverside, twirly and tickly fern leaves, bright red buttons that have fallen from a school uniform — Tooka and Poi pick them all up. Every day, they meet after school, near the bendy coconut tree by the river, and wait for their best friend.At five o' clock on the dot, Inji arrives, huffing and puffing like an old school bus. Inji is a friendly dog with eyes the colour of chocolate and a tail that never stops wagging. Together, Tooka, Poi, and Inji walk, heads bent, scanning the gleaming road, the tufts of grass, and moss-covered rocks for interesting things to collect. Their favourite thing to collect are seeds!Tooka and Poi collect shiny red seeds that look like ladybirds, spiky burrs that stick to their clothes, and the giant bean-shaped pods of the copper pod tree. The pods make a delightful tshh-tsh-tshh sound when Tooka and Poi shake it about. Poi loves to make up funny songs to go with the seed music. “Inji is the best of dogs,She likes big flowers and little frogs,And birds and seeds and ants and snails,But best of all, she loves her tail!”Over and over she sings these songs, making Tooka laugh and Inji bark happily. Tooka, Poi, and Inji are sitting by the tamarind tree. Tooka's favourite seeds are the pudgy pods from around this tree.He loves to suck on its sour flesh until he gets to the shiny brown seeds inside. It makes Tooka's face scrunch up in funny ways and the hair on the back of his neck stands up. Suddenly they hear a small squeaky voice say “Hellllooooo." Tooka and Poi look at each other, puzzled. They can't see anybody.“Up here! Up here!” they hear the voice say again.Tooka and Poi look up and down, and all around, but there isn't a person in sight. “It's me, Pacha. I'm the tamarind tree.” Inji barks loudly and wags her tail faster than normal. Phat-phat-phat it goes, back and forth.“Why hello Inji,” Pacha the Tree says. “I haven't seen you in days!” Tooka and Poi become still as statues. Their eyes widen and their mouths freeze in big 'O' shapes.Finally, Poi smiles shyly and says, “Hello Pacha the Tamarind Tree. It's nice to meet you. I'm Poi!” Then she gives the tree a big hug. Pacha giggles, “I've never been hugged by a little girl before! It feels tickly!”“And we've never met a talking tree before!” Tooka says, cheerfully, “So this is an adventure for all of us.” Hearing this, Pacha laughs loudly, making the leaves on his branches glow a brighter green.“What are you two up to today?” Pacha asks. “We're collecting things!” Tooka and Poi say! Tooka and Poi show Pacha the Tree their bag of flowers, pebbles, and sticky tamarind.“How lovely that you're collecting seeds!” Pacha says. “Do you know I came from one of those little tamarind seeds? And look at me now, all grown up with so many branches and a big family of sparrows and squirrels and crows living with me.”“What do you mean?” Tooka asks. Inji barks enthusiastically. Bow! Bow! Bow! Inji said but Tooka is sure it sounds like “How? How? How?” “Those seeds you're collecting,” Pacha explains, “They're all tree babies.”“They are?” Poi asks, her eyebrows scrunched into squiggly black lines.“Do all seeds grow into tamarind trees?” Poi asks, trying to remember how many seeds she has at home. “Oh no!” Pacha replies. “Seeds grow into all sorts of things.”“Do you have any fruit in your bag?” Pacha asks. Tooka nods and pulls out a small, red apple and a soggy banana. “There you go!” Pacha says, excitedly. “Now bite into the apple until you reach the centre. You'll see little brown seeds sitting there.”“They're like shiny little bugs!” says Poi.“Aren't they pretty?” Pacha asks. “Those little seeds grow into apple trees”“Now break the banana in half and see what you find,” Pacha instructs. “I see the seeds!” Tooka says excitedly. “They look like a sleeping millipede!”“Seeds come in all shapes and sizes”, Pacha says while Inji gobbles the last of the apple. “Are they all tree babies?” Poi asks.“Yes!” says Pacha. “And they all have a little plant inside, waiting to come out and see the world.” As Tooka, Poi, and Inji walk home that evening, they look closely at all the trees along the road.How pretty the leaves of the coconut tree look as they dance in the wind.How beautiful the red gulmohar flowers are against the bright blue sky.How nice and rough the bark of the mango tree feels under their palms.And how wonderful that something as big and important as a tree starts out as a teeny, weeny little seed. Tooka, Poi, and Inji still meet every evening after school. But now, Tooka and Poi collect things in which they can plant the seeds they collect. Old shoes, empty coconut shells, even used plastic bottles — everything can be turned into pots.And every once in a while, they stop by for a chat with Pacha the Tree. Pacha's Super Seed GuideHello! I'm Pacha, the tamarind tree, but I go by all sorts of names. I'm called imli in Hindi, puli in Tamil, and tentul in Bengali. Scientists call me Tamarindus indica.Let me introduce you to some of my seed friends. You may have seen them on your dinner plate. MolaguCommon name: Red chilliScientists call me: Capsicum annumChillies come in all shapes, sizes, and colours, and are grown all over the world. Its seeds are small, circular, and flat, and add spice to dal and bhaji. Careful when you touch them, they'll make your fingers burn!KaapiCommon name: CoffeeScientists call me: Coffeea ArabicaYou know the coffee your parents drink every morning? That comes from coffee berries. The seeds from the berries are dried, roasted, and then powdered. Coffee bushes grow best in hilly regions of South India.ChakkaCommon name: JackfruitScientists call me: Artocarpus heterophyllusBerries, apples, bananas, watermelon, and jackfruit — all fruits have seeds in them. Some seeds we cannot eat, like that of the mango. Others, like the jackfruit, are used to make curries after they are soaked in water. ThengaCommon name: CoconutScientists call me: Cocos NuciferaNearly every part of the hard, brown coconut is useful to us. The hairy, hard outside part is used to make rope, the fleshy inside is used in food, and the coconut water is a delicious drink, especially when it's hot outside. And the oil that you put in your hair? That comes from the coconut too.KappalandiCommon name: PeanutScientists call me: Arachis hypogaeaAll plants love soil, but peanuts love the earth so much that they grow underground. And that's why some people call them groundnuts. These little seeds are packed with goodness and are delicious when eaten raw, steamed, or roasted. ChoruCommon name: RiceaScientists call me: Oryza sativaRice is one of the most popular grains! It's eaten in more homes in India than any other seed I know. On the plant, rice actually has a rough, brown cover, like a jacket, which keeps the seed inside safe and sound.ChocolateCommon name: ChocolateScientists call me: Theobroma cacao (which means food of the gods)Rice might be the most popular seed, but cacao is definitely the most loved seed of all — especially by Tooka and Poi. The cacao seed is where chocolate comes from. Each cacao fruit has about 30-50 seeds that are roasted and then mixed with sugar and milk to make bars of delightful chocolate.

Reeti's holidays have begun. But Reeti isn't happy. She doesn't like holidays. She likes going to school!In school Reeti has lots of friends. At home she has no one to play with. She has a Papa who brings her toys and books and tells her stories. Reeti likes that. Her Papa does yoga every morning. Reeti likes that too and tries to imitate him. She has a Mummy who writes poetry and works on a computer. Reeti likes looking at the computer with Mummy.She also likes looking at Mummy's tummy! Mummy's tummy is getting big and round. Because there is a baby in it.“Soon you'll have a little brother or sister to play with,” says Mummy. Reeti likes that. But right now, she has no one to play with. Not one of her friends lives close by. Then one evening the doorbell rings. Their neighbour Das Uncle is standing outside holding a bright-green parrot in a black cage.“We are leaving town,” says Das Uncle. “Would you like to have our Mithu as a pet? He can talk!”Papa and Mummy look at each other. They don't think birds should be in cages. But Reeti is very excited. “Yes, Uncle!” she says, with a big smile. And so Mithu becomes Reeti's new friend. “Hello Mithu!” says Reeti.Mithu looks at her. “Hello!” he says. “Hello!”Reeti is thrilled. “What's your name?” she asks.“Hello,” says the parrot.“No,” says Reeti. “Your name is Mithu. Say Mithu.”“Hello,” says Mithu. “No! No!” says Reeti, shaking her head. “Let's try again. My name is Reeti. Mithu, listen carefully. My name is Reeti. What is my name?”“Hello,” says Mithu.“NO!” Reeti laughs. “Mithu, you are a naughty boy!”Every day Reeti tries to teach Mithu new words. “Say Pa-pa. Say Mum-my. Say Ree-ti.”But all Mithu says is, “Hel-lo.” One day, Mummy takes Reeti across town to her friend's birthday party. Reeti meets all her friends and enjoys herself. She brings back a piece of birthday cake for Mithu. BUT – where is he?“Mummy, where's Mithu?” cries Reeti, running from room to room.“I don't know,” says Mummy. “But don't worry. We'll find him.” Just then Papa walks in, with Mithu in his cage.“Hello!” says Mithu.“I took your friend to the park for some fresh air,” says Papa.Reeti is so relieved! She gives Mithu the birthday cake. But he doesn't like it. Just as Reeti's holidays are coming to an end, a flock of green parrots come flying to the big tree outside her window. They are all squawking and talking loudly. Mithu goes mad inside his cage, which Reeti has now placed near the window. He squawks, he jumps up and down and spreads his wings.Reeti watches. “Are they your friends, Mithu?” she asks.Mithu doesn't answer. He only looks at the parrots on the tree. As swiftly as they had come, the parrots fly away.“What were they saying, Mithu?” Reeti asks.“Hello,” says Mithu sadly. “Hello.” Reeti's holidays are over.It is the first day of school. Reeti meets all her friends and teachers. During the lunch break she plays happily with her friends.The big trees around the school playground are full of twittering birds. When Reeti reaches home after school, she sees Mithu sitting quietly in his cage.“Hello, Mithu,” she whispers. He looks at her but doesn't say anything. Reeti puts down her schoolbag. She opens the window. Then she opens the door of the cage.“Go, Mithu!” she says. “Go and find your friends.”He looks at her. “Go, Mithu!” she says again. “Fly away!” Mithu steps out of his cage. He looks at Reeti one last time. And with a final “hello”, he spreads his wings and flies away to join his friends. ### Who Needs A Pet?Anyone who wants a loving and loyal friend needs a pet. If you're feeling lonely and lost or mean and mad, a pet is sure to do something... anything to make you glad. A pet will play with you, make you feel better, teach you lots of important things, and bring endless fun into your life. Now, who doesn't want that?### Should You Have A Pet Or Not?Sure, pets are fun, but don't rush out to get one! Think carefully:- Will your parents let you keep a pet?- Do you really want a pet? Remember, a pet is for life. It is not a toy you can throw away once you get bored with it.- Pets need food, clean water, exercise, and love. They also have to be trained, taken to the vet, and given baths. That means extra work, every single day. Do you have the time for that?- Can you forgive your pet if it makes a mess with its muddy paws, or chews your favourite shoes? ### Am I Really Ready For A Pet?Your best friend has a pet, and you wish you had one too! So you're wondering whether you should get a dog, a cat, or maybe, even a rat. Stop right there, before you pick a pet, and ask yourself these questions.Do I have the time to take care of a pet?Having a pet is a h-u-g-e responsibility. Whether it is for training, feeding or plain loving, you've got to spend time on your pet – big time!### Do I Have Space At Home For A Pet?Small pets like cats, fish and birds can adapt to houses of any size. But dogs may need more space to run around and exercise. ### What Kind Of Pet Do I Want?If you want a specific kind of pet, talk to a vet or to people who own similar pets. Find out what they eat and how they behave. Then think hard about whether the pet will suit you.### Can I Afford To Have A Pet?All pets require food and shelter. Then, there are the visits to the vet for check-ups, vaccinations, and for treatment when the pet falls ill.### Will A Pet Be Welcome At Home?You may love animals, but do the rest of the family share your feelings? You need to talk this through with your family before you get a pet.

Every morning Hilifa woke up early to prepare breakfast for his mother. She had been sick a lot recently and Hilifa was learning how to look after his mother and himself. When his mother was too ill to get up he would make a fire to boil water to make tea. He would take tea to his mother and prepare porridge for breakfast. Sometimes his mother was too weak to eat it. Hilifa worried about his mother. His father had died two years ago, and now his mother was ill too. She was very thin, just like his father had been. One morning he asked his mother, "What is wrong Mum? When will you be better? You don't cook anymore. You can't work in the field or clean the house. You don't prepare my lunchbox, or wash my uniform..." "Hilifa my son, you are only nine years old and you take good care of me." She looked at the young boy, wondering what she should tell him. Would he understand? "I am very ill. You have heard on the radio about the disease called AIDS. I have that disease," she told him. Hilifa was quiet for a few minutes. "Does that mean you will die like Daddy?" "There is no cure for AIDS." Hilifa walked to school thoughtfully. He couldn't join in the chatter and games of his friends as they walked along. "What's wrong?" they asked him. But Hilifa couldn't answer, his mother's words were ringing in his ears, "No cure. No cure." How could he look after himself if his mother died, he worried. Where would he live? Where would he get money for food? Hilifa sat at his desk. He traced the worn wood markings with his finger, "No cure. No cure." "Hilifa? Hilifa, are you with us?" Hilifa looked up. Ms. Nelao was standing over him. "Stand up Hilifa! What was my question?" Hilifa looked down at his feet. "You won't find the answer down there!" she retorted. "Magano, tell Hilifa the answer." Hilifa felt so ashamed, Ms. Nelao had never shouted at him before. Hilifa struggled through the morning. At break time he sat in the classroom. "I have a stomach ache," he lied to his friends. It wasn't a big lie, he did feel sick, and his worried thoughts buzzed inside his head like angry bees. Ms. Nelao watched him quietly. She asked him what was wrong. "Nothing," he replied. Her ears heard the tiredness and worry in his voice. Her eyes saw the fear he was trying so hard to hide. When Hilifa tried to do his maths the numbers jumped around in his head. He couldn't keep them still long enough to count them. He soon gave up. He thought of his mother instead. His fingers began to draw his thoughts. He drew his mother in her bed. He drew himself standing beside his mother's grave. "Maths monitors, collect all the books please," called Ms. Nelao. Hilifa suddenly saw the drawings in his book and tried to tear out the page, but it was too late. The monitor took his book to Ms. Nelao. Ms. Nelao looked at Hilifa's drawings. When the children were leaving to go home she called, "Come here Hilifa. I want to talk to you." "What's wrong?" she asked him gently. "My mother is ill. She told me she has AIDS. Will she die?" "I don't know, Hilifa, but she is very ill if she has AIDS. There is no cure." Those words again, "No cure. No cure." Hilifa began to cry. "Go home, Hilifa," she said. "I will come and visit your mother." Hilifa went home and found his mother preparing lunch. "I've cooked for you today, Hilifa, but now I am very tired. Look after the vegetable garden and take some tomatoes to the shop. They will sell them for us." After lunch Hilifa went to the vegetable plot. He looked at the bright colours of the vegetables, bright red tomatoes and chillies, long green beans and dark green spinach, the green leaves of the sweet potato and tall golden maize. He watered the garden and picked a bag full of ripe red tomatoes to take to the shop. "What would happen to their garden if his mother died?" he wondered. Ms. Nelao arrived soon after Hilifa left. She spent a long time talking to his mother. She asked Hilifa's mother, "Meme Ndapanda, are you taking the medicine for AIDS?" "After my husband died I was too ashamed to go to the doctor," she told Ms. Nelao. "I kept hoping I wasn't infected. When I became ill and went to the doctor she told me it was too late. The medicine would not help me." Ms. Nelao told Meme Ndapanda what to do to help Hilifa. When Hilifa came home his mother asked him, "Hilifa, my son, I want to take a walk with you. Will you help me?" Hilifa took his mother's arm and she leaned on him. They walked to where the tall thorn trees grew. She asked him, "Do you remember playing football here with your cousin Kunuu? You kicked the ball into the tree and it got stuck on the thorns. Your father got scratched getting it down for you." "Look, there's an omandjembere bush. Go and pick some to take home." When Hilifa was picking the sweet berries, she said, "Do you remember when you were small you ate the berries and the seed inside. You didn't go to the toilet for a week!" "Yes, my stomach was sooo sore," remembered Hilifa, laughing. When they got home Hilifa's mother was very tired. Hilifa made some tea. Meme Ndapanda took a small box from under her bed. "Hilifa, this is for you. In this box are things that will help you remember where you come from." She took the mementos out of the box one by one. "This is a photo of your father holding you. You were his firstborn son. This photo is when I took you to see your grandparents, they were so happy. This is the first tooth you lost. Do you remember how you cried and I had to promise you that more would grow. This is the brooch your father gave me when we were married for one year." Hilifa held the box and began to cry. His mother held him close by her side and said a prayer, "May the Lord protect you and keep you safe." She held him as she spoke. "Hilifa, my son. You know that I am very ill, and soon I will be with your father. I don't want you to be sad. Remember how much I love you. Remember how much your father loved you." His mother continued, "Uncle Kave from Oshakati sends us money when he can. He told me that he will care for you. I have talked to him about it. You'll go to school with Kunuu, his son. Kunuu is in Grade 4 like you. They will take good care of you." "I like Uncle Kave and Aunt Muzaa," said Hilifa. "And I like playing with Kunuu. Would you become well if they look after you?" "No, my son. I won't become well. You look after me very well. I am proud to have such a good son." The next morning at school Ms. Nelao taught them about HIV and AIDS. The learners looked afraid. They heard about this illness on the radio, but no-one spoke about it at home. "Where does it come from?" asked Magano. "How do we catch it?" asked Hidipo. Ms. Nelao explained that HIV is the name of a virus. When a person has the HIV virus in their blood they still look healthy. "We say they have AIDS when they become ill." Ms. Nelao explained some of the ways we can be infected with HIV. "If someone has HIV or AIDS we can catch the virus from their blood. We should never share razors or toothbrushes. If we get our ears pierced we must use sterilised blades and needles." She explained how needles and blades should be sterilised. "If we hurt ourselves and there is blood we must ask an adult to clean the wound. We must cover the wound to protect it," she told them. Then she showed them a chart. "These are all the ways you can't catch HIV," she told them. "You won't get HIV from using the toilet, or sharing a bath. Hugging, kissing or shaking hands with someone with HIV or AIDS is also safe. It's OK to share cups and plates with someone who has HIV or AIDS. And you can't catch it from someone who is coughing or sneezing. Also, you can't get it from mosquitoes or other biting insects like lice or bedbugs." "What do you do if you've got it?" asked Magano. "Well, you must take care of yourself and eat lots of healthy food. Look at our food chart," she said. "Who can remember what food is good for you?" she asked. When Hilifa got home he told his mother what he had learned at school that day. "Ms. Nelao told us about HIV and AIDS and how to look after someone who's ill. Magano and Hidipo are going to help me with my chores and we will do our homework together," he told her. That afternoon Magano came and helped Hilifa to fetch water. Hidipo helped him to gather firewood. Then they sat and did their homework in the shade of the marula tree. Ms. Nelao had also told Hilifa's neighbours that he was looking after his mother. They had promised to help him. Every night a different neighbour came with hot food for them to eat. Hilifa always gave them some vegetables from the garden. On the last day of the school term Hilifa was very happy. He ran home to show his mother his report card. He ran into the yard calling, "Mum. Mum. Look at my report card. I have got ‘A', ‘A', and more ‘A's'." Hilifa found his mother lying in bed. "Mum!" he called. "Mum! Wake up!" She didn't wake up. Hilifa ran to the neighbours. "My Mum. My Mum. She won't wake up," he cried. The neighbours went home with Hilifa and found Meme Ndapanda in her bed. "She is dead, Hilifa," they said sadly. Very quickly the news spread that Meme Ndapanda was dead. The house was full of family, neighbours and friends. They prayed for Hilifa's mother and sang hymns. They talked about all the good things they knew about her. Aunt Muzaa cooked for all the visitors. Uncle Kave told Hilifa that they would take him back to Oshakati after the funeral. His Grandfather told him stories about his mother when she was a little girl. At the funeral Hilifa went to the front of the church and told everyone about his mother. "My mother loved me and looked after me very well. She told me to study hard so that I could get a good job. She wanted me to be happy. I will study hard and work hard so that she can be proud of me." After the funeral Uncle Kave and Aunt Muzaa helped Hilifa to pack his things to take to Oshakati. "Kunuu is looking forward to having a new friend," they told him. "We will care for you like our own son." Hilifa said goodbye to the house and got into the taxi with them.

Rini, Neha and Rupa are three friends. Rini and Neha are twins and Rupa's mother is the elder sister of Rini and Neha, so Rini and Neha are actually Rupa's 'mausis'. But Rini and Neha are only one year older than Rupa and they are close friends.Rini and Neha live in Murshidabad a town in West Bengal. They go to a village school, Rupa lives in a big city Kolkata and goes to a school there. The friends would very much love to be together but cannot because of school. So they eagerly wait for their summer vacation. When the schools close on summer vacation, Rupa and her family of father, mother, brother and sister will take the train to travel to their ancestral home in the town of Murshidabad, where the twins live.Murshidabad is a small town famous in West Bengal for the palace of Siraj Ud Daulla known all over as Hazar Duari. (thousand doors) The river Ganges flows by the river. The streets are wide and tree lined and the summer sun plays a glittering game of light and shade on the beautiful streets by the river and the town as a whole. Rupa feels excited about meeting her friends. There are lots of things to talk about, which is pent up in the last six months and of course she thought of all the games they play. She was so quiet sitting in a corner in the train, her mom was worried and asked her if she was feeling well. Rupa gave a broad smile and said she is quite alright and only thinking about Rini and Neha.They reached in the evening, she met Rini and Neha, they had so much to talk about, so many rooms to roam around and so many people to hug.There was her grandmother, and grandfather who greeted her with big kisses and a plate full of rasgullas. Then she met all her aunts and told them about her days in school. Finally the three friends took their dinner and went to a room, huddled together and went to sleep. They had already agreed that they would get up early in the morning and visit the fishes in the pond. This is how Rupa's vacation with her close friends started.Her vacation means playing all through the morning after breakfast of parathas and alu bhaji. They will stop playing only when they feel hungry. After their lunch they would try to continue playing while their parents would insist that they get some rest. They would agree to rest only if their grandmother will tell them a story. They will fall asleep listening to grand-mother's fairy tale.In the afternoon grandfather would call them aloud to take them to their farm. they would play in the farm with other children. grandfather would take them through the lush green fields of rice, pulses and mustard. They would play there along with the children of the farmers. by evening grandfather would bundle them up in his jeep and bring them back home. At home grandma would soak a brass bucket full of mangoes cut at the tips. when the children are back grandma would slice the mangoes and hand them over to the children. they will eat to their hearts content.Ma will then call Rupa and the rest of the children for studies. they would study under her mother's guidance. after studies they would sit in the verandah for their dinner. they would sit on the ground on top of mats and food would be served by the aunties. Rupa would be so happy that she would not notice how the days passed by and it would be time to return to school in Calcutta.It so happened that the day to go back arrived. The family got ready and it was time to leave for the station. Everybody got into the jeep, when Rupa's ma noticed that Rupa was missing . Everybody started looking for Rupa calling out her name. Rini and Neha started running into all rooms looking for her, but she could not be found anywhere. Rupa's mother started crying and nobody knew what could be done. It is already 1 O" clock in the afternoon. It is getting late as they were supposed to catch the 2 O'clock train to Calcutta and they cannot possibly leave Rupa behind. Rupa's father said "we will wait for Rupa and we will not go today". the family trouped back into the house and everybody started looking for Rupa in earnest.Suddenly Rini found Rupa peeping out from behind the cowshed. She asked Rini 'Is it 2 O clock yet?'Then as the clock struck 2 she came out of her hiding place. Rini asked Rupa 'why are you hiding?' Rupa said "I dont want to go. I want to stay another day. I hid to miss the train. Rini held Rupa's hand and took her to the kitchen where everybody was. Seeing Rupa everybody jumped up asking questions and there was quite a lot of commotion. Rupa's mom started scolding her and crying at the same time. Rupa's father sat in a corner and didn't say a word. Rupa was feeling sorry and stood in a corner with her head bowed down. Rini could not help herself she blurted out 'why are you all scolding her she just wanted to stay another day.' Hearing that Rupa's mother pulled Rupa in and hugged her. Rupa's father said 'go and enjoy another day, we will go tomorrow, but next time don't hide, tell us if you want another day to stay.'

Basha and his sister Sainabi live in Hyderabad with their parents. Basha loves food. What he loves more is to cook food. He helps his Ammi in the kitchen everyday. He likes to watch her hands as they chop the brightly-coloured vegetables - plump red tomatoes, crisp green capsicums, firm orange carrots, fleshy pink onions...“Mmmm!” Basha loves the tempting aromas that swirl around Ammi's kitchen as the dhals, rice, vegetables, meat, and spices change colour on the stove. He hopes that Ammi will give him a chance to cook a dish on his own someday. One day, Basha and Sainabi come back from school to find Ammi asleep with high fever. Baba is not yet back from his office.Ammi's mobile rings. Basha sees that Ammi's best friend Saira aunty is calling and answers it quickly. He does not want to wake Ammi up.“I'm on my way back home from a wedding with lots of friends,” Saira aunty explains. She sounds exhausted. “We will be passing by your home in about two hours' time. Do you think we can have dinner at your place? There are 24 of us - and 4 are vegetarian."Basha knows that Ammi would love to see them. He and Sainabi are very fond of Saira aunty too. “You are most welcome," Basha says. He feels excited as he hangs up the phone. This is his chance to cook a dish on his own! But will he be able to do it? He feels nervous. He opens the fridge and sees many of his favourite vegetables - cauliflower, peas, beans. He can also see a bunch of fresh mint leaves peeking out from under the carrots. "Yes!" he thinks to himself. "I have everything I need for a yummy Vegetable Dum Biryani!"Basha has watched Ammi cook Vegetable Dum Biryani many times for their family of 4. But he now has to cook for 24 people! That is six times* the number of people Ammi usually cooks it for!*(4+4+4+4+4+4 = 24. Or, 4x6 = 24)"That means," thinks Basha to himself, feeling a little nervous, "I have to cook the biryani six times!" Would he have enough time to do that? As he starts to lay out six of every vessel he needs for the cooking, Sainabi appears at the kitchen door. “What are you up to?” she asks, frowning. When Basha explains to her what he is doing, she starts to laugh loudly.“Buddhu!” she teases him. “You don't need to make the dish 6 times! You just have to have to make it ONCE, but with 6 times the quantities of all the ingredients needed."Basha doesn't like to be teased by his smart little sister. Of COURSE he doesn't have to make the biryani six times! He could kick himself for his silly mistake. "I knew it all the time," he says quickly. "I just wanted to see if YOU knew it."“Of course you did, Bhai," Sainabi says soothingly, but her eyes twinkle mischievously. "So, tell me, how much rice do we need for 4 people?”“1.5 cups.”“Then you'll need 1.5 x 6 = 9 cups of rice for 24 people," Sainabi replies instantly. Basha stares at her. How does Sainabi work out those numbers so quickly in her head? "That's right," he says gruffly, measuring out the rice into a big vessel. "Now, why don't you tell me how much we need of all the other ingredients too, and I will tell you if you are right.""Sure, Bhai!" says Sainabi, running to get a pencil and paper. She loves it when her brother involves her in something he is doing. As Basha tells her the list of ingredients needed for four people, she calculates the quantities for 24."15 green beans for 4 people," calls out Basha."That means... 15 x 6 = 90 green beans for 24!" says Sainabi."3/4 cup of curd for 4 people.""That means 3/4 x 6 = 0.75 x 6 = 4.5 cups of curd for 24," says Sainabi, working it out on her paper quickly. "I hope we have that much curd in the fridge.""We do," says Basha. "Next..." Finally, they have measured out all the ingredients. “Can you help me with the chopping too?” Basha asks, realizing that there are a lot of vegetables to be chopped.“Of course, Bhai,” grins Sainabi. Today is her lucky day!Basha first soaks the fine orange strands of saffron in milk and the rice in water. He then joins Sainabi in chopping the vegetables. Then he turns on the stove and starts roasting the spices - cinnamon, cloves, green cardamoms, black cardamoms - and all the chopped vegetables, in ghee.The familiar pleasant aromas of good food start to fill the house. Basha starts to gain confidence in himself. He can't wait to get to his favourite part now - layering and slow-cooking the half-cooked rice, spices and vegetables in a handi.As Basha sets up the handi and starts to slow-cook it on the tawa, the doorbell rings. Before he and Sainabi can get to the door, Ammi has woken up and is greeting the guests with a surprised look on her face. Her surprise turns to worry as she realizes that they're here for dinner and she hasn't cooked anything. She follows the pleasant smells and reaches the kitchen.“Surprise!” shout Basha and Sainabi as they whip the lid off the handi. Ammi is stunned.“Basha is a great cook, Ammi. He has made biryani! I helped him make it,” Sainabi says. Basha smiles proudly at Ammi, thinking that his little sister is not so bad after all.Ammi hugs Basha and Sainabi. "Mashallah!" she smiles. "I have two really fine kids. I am so proud of you both.""Why don't you join Saira aunty and the others, Ammi?" says Basha. "Sainabi and I will serve you all." Sainabi nods eagerly. Maybe Bhai will ask her to help him with more things from now on! She can't stop smiling at the thought.“This is the best Dum Biryani we've ever had!” say Saira aunty and her friends."I agree - 100 percent!" says Ammi, licking her fingers. Basha and Sainabi are all smiles! Cook with Basha and Sainabi!Guess what! Basha and Sainabi's Ammi sweetly agreed to share her Dum Biryani recipe with us! Be sure there is an adult around when you try it.Ingredients (for a biryani that serves 4):- Basmati rice - 1 1/2 cups, soaked in water- Hot milk with 3 strands of saffron soaking in it - 2 tbsp*- Water - 4 cups- Ghee - 4 tbsp- Onion - 1, sliced- Shahi Jeera - 1/2 tsp**- Bay leaf - 1- Cinnamon - 2 inch stick- Cloves - 8- Ginger-garlic paste - 1 1/2 tbsp- Mixed vegetables (cauliflower, beans, carrots, peas) - 3 cups, chopped- Tomato - 2 small, chopped- Green chilli - 1, chopped*tbsp = tablespoon**tsp = teaspoon - Spice powders (Garam masala - 1 tsp; Haldi powder - 1/2 tsp; Dhaniya powder - 1 tbsp)- Curd - 3/4 cup- Mint leaves - 2 tbsp, chopped- Coriander leaves - 1 tbsp, chopped- Cashews and raisins - 5 each- Green cardamom - 5- Black cardamom - 1- Milk - 2 tbsp- Salt - 1 1/2 tspStart cooking!1. Heat half the ghee in a pan and fry the onions until browny-gold. Keep aside.2. In the same pan, heat the rest of the ghee. Fry shahi jeera, bay leaves, cinnamon and cloves in it. Add ginger garlic paste and fry for 2 minutes.3. Add the mixed vegetables, tomato and green chilli and fry for 3 minutes.4. Add all the spice powders. Fry well for 2 minutes.5. Pour the curd and half the salt into the pan and mix well. Cover and cook on low flame for about 10 minutes, until the vegetables are soft but not mushy.Footnotes to go with recipe1. A vessel with small holes at the bottom to drain water2. A deep and wide mouth cooking vessel 6. Take the pan off the stove and add mint and coriander leaves into it.7. In a separate pan, boil the water. Add the rest of the salt, black cardamoms and the green cardamoms.8. Drain the soaked rice, add it to the boiling water, and cook for 8 minutes with the pan uncovered. When the rice is almost cooked, drain it through a colander* . 9. In a handi** whose size is just right to hold the biryani, begin layering. In Layer 1, put 1/3rd of the cooked vegetable mix (from step 5) and 1/3rd of the cashews and raisins. In Layer 2, put 1/3rd of the cooked rice (step 8), topped with 1/3rd of the fried onions (step 1) and 1/3rd of saffron milk. Keep alternating Layers 1 and 2 until you have six layers.10. Cover the handi and place it on a hot tava. Cook for 5 minutes on a medium flame and another 7 minutes on a low flame.11. Remove the handi from the stove and mix the biryani until the colours of the spices are uniformly distributed.12. The Vegetable Dum Biryani is now ready to serve!!*Colander: A vessel with small holes at the bottom to drain water**Handi: A deep and wide-mouthed cooking vessel Are you a food math wiz?Can you cook up a delicious biryani for 24 like Basha did? No? Never mind. Maybe you can help him calculate the quantities of various ingredients he needs, like Sainabi did. Go on, try it!1. If Basha needs 1 onion for a biryani for 4 people, how many will he need for a biryani for 24 people?2. If Basha needs 72 florets of cauliflower for biryani that serves 24, how many florets should he put into a biryani that serves 3?3. If the recipe says to put in 3/4 cups of curd for a biryani for 6 people, how much curd should we put into a biryani for 48 people?4. To make biryani for 5 people, you need 4 tbsp of ghee. If Basha puts in 32 tbsps, how many people is he cooking for?5. A biryani that serves 8 needs 2 two-inch sticks of cinnamon. How many two-inch sticks are required for a biryani that serves 64?Once you're done calculating, check for answers in the next page. No cheating, okay? Answers:1. 6 onions2. 9 florets3. 6 cups4. 40 people5. 16 sticks

"Again! Stack them up again, Bonda! I want to try knocking them down from a different angle!"Without hesitating for a moment, without even frowning, Bonda puts one battered box on top of the other for the fiftieth time. The high, shaky, cardboard tower is perfectly balanced, the way only Bonda knows how to build it. I rev up my super-speedy turbo engine – vrooom, VROOM – and gun for it, coming in from the right this time. BAM! I crash through, shrieking with delight, as the tower explodes around me.Bonda laughs, clapping as loudly as he did the first time I did this.Dear Bonda. The best, most loyal friend anyone could have. Especially a 10-year-old in a wheelchair. Hi. I'm Devi, and I'm from the year 2085 AD.My grandfather is always going on about how much the world has changed since he was my age, back in 2016. It's more crowded now, but the air, thankfully, is less polluted, because a great many vehicles now run on electricity or solar power. There are fewer accidents too, because vehicles drive themselves, and they are very careful. There are fewer trees and forests than there used to be, but more are being planted all the time, which is good.But what has REALLY changed, says my grandfather, is technology. There was technology way back in 2016 too, but nothing like what we have now. it has truly made life wonderful.Well, MY life, anyway. It was technology that gave me my best friend. Meet Bonda. Best friend forever, cardboard-tower builder, and ROBOT.I see your eyes pop. Ha! You hadn't guessed that, had you? But think about it. Which other friend would cheerfully build you a tower 50 times over without complaining? And which other friend would build it so perfectly every single time?Bonda: I agree! Humans are simply not as accurate or as consistent as we are. And they complain that doing the same thing over and over is “boring” (I've no idea what that word means, so don't ask me!). And they fall ill, and need to go to the toilet a lot. I wonder how they got anything done before we arrived! Building towers is not all Bonda can do, though. I can train him to do many other things – bowl me two dozen fast balls in ten minutes so that I can practise my batting, bring down my secret treasure box from the topmost shelf (which is so high that no one else can reach it without a ladder), lift Baba's heavy desk so I can see where my tiny gold earring has rolled off to (Ma would yell at me for hours if I lost it)... Things like that. Bonda: Like I said, humans are quite useless compared to us robots. The poor things are stuck at their sad little heights, while we can grow taller and shorter at will, by extending or collapsing our arms and legs. Our eyes can be cameras, telescopes, microscopes, or all three rolled into one! How do I train Bonda? By “programming” him. Programming means showing him, just once, how something's done. For instance, the other day, I wanted him to bring me my secret treasure box, the one I talked about earlier. Here's how I did it.First, I directed Bonda to the shelf it was sitting on, drawing the route on the plan of my house he displays on his touchscreen.“Can you reach up and scan the top shelf now, B?” I said when he got there. His arm shot out and up. As he ran his hand along the length of the shelf, the tiny camera inside his finger clicked away, taking pictures of everything there. When he showed me those pictures, I simply touched the picture of the box I wanted. "That's my secret treasure box, Bonda," I said. "Can you bring it down for me?"Now, whenever I need the box, I only have to say, "Secret treasure box!" and off he goes, straight to the shelf. Once he has “learnt” something, Bonda never forgets. His memory is fantastic!Bonda: Fantastic? Only to incompetent humans, who can never remember where they left their keys, their glasses, their phones... Yeah, that's what my best friend's like. And yeah, I am a very lucky girl indeed. Oh, don't get me wrong – I'm not weird. I do have human friends who I play with and fight with and go to school with. But I love Bonda more than all of them, because he doesn't sulk when I have fun with someone else, or get jealous when I beat him at maths, or mad when I forget to wish him on his birthday...Psst! And this is because... Bonda has no feelings! But don't say that out loud – it might make him feel bad. Bonda: Tsk, tsk, Devi, where's your logical thinking, girl? You say I don't have feelings, and then you worry that I will “feel bad”. Humans can be logical, but when they "feel" sad, or mad, or scared, logic disappears! Pah! Who needs feelings?Wait! Was that a “feeling” I felt just now? My processor tells me it was. It tells me I am feeling something called “disgust”... Hmm... I don't know how to “feel” about that. Oh, and here's the best part – I never have to feel bad that he's having fun with another friend instead of me, because... he doesn't have any!Bonda: Hey, hey, that's not true – I do have other friends! The robot waitress at the cafe always says “Hello” nicely, and so does the robot checkout boy at the grocery store...Wait a minute... I've just processed what Devi has been saying... she only likes me BECAUSE I have no other friends – AND no feelings! Not because of who I am! Oh no! I feel a rush of feels – I'm feeling mad, and sad, and... "Bonda! Are you okay? You're overheating, Bonda – you have a fever! And your auto shut-down is not working!"But don't worry, my friend, I will take care of you like you have always taken care of me. Listen carefully now, Bonda – I'm going to shut you down now so that your system can recover, ok? Don't be scared – it will be like going to sleep, that's all. And when I start you up again, you'll be back, good as new, and we will be best friends again. Do you hear me?"Bonda: Devi's eyes are all wet, like they are when she is sad, or scared. That makes me feel a sad feel. But my processor tells me that her wet eyes mean that she really cares about me. Now I feel a happy feel... So confused... sad-and-happy... happy-and-sad... And shutting dowww... There is a whirr and a hum as Bonda reboots. I fight back my tears."Bonda?" I say. "Bonda, can you hear me? Do you know who I am? Please tell me your memory isn't wiped out! I want you to remember all the fun we've had this past year, all the love..." Bonda: A-ha! Love. Was that the feel I was feeling, that happy-and-sad feel? Bonda looks at me."Hi Devi! What would you like me to do for you today? Shall we play Stack-the-Boxes? Shall I bring you your secret treasure box? Do you want to...""Bonda! You're all right! Oh, I'm glad, glad, GLAD!"I throw my arms around Bonda and hug him tight. Bonda: And then I do something really odd, something no one has ever programmed me to do. I wrap my arms around my friend Devi, for no logical reason at all.### Robots: Yesterday, Today And TomorrowWill there be a Bonda for every Devi by the year 2085? We'll have to wait and see, but there is no denying that robots will be far more visible even in 25 years from now, by the year 2040.### Who Or What Is A Robot?If you said a robot is a machine that looks and acts like a human, except it moves jerkily, has a flat, expressionless voice, and eyes that flash when it is turned on, you've obviously been watching too many movies and TV shows. Because, actually, a robot is “any electro-mechanical machine guided by a computer program or electronic circuits". Yup, it doesn't have to look like a human at all. Which is why you may not have realised that there are robots all around us, already!### Really? Where?Well, they are in factories, warehouses, orchards, hospitals and even homes. They may look like large mechanical arms, like the ones in car manufacturing plants, welding, gluing and painting car parts. Or they may look like tiny cameras, like the ones in hospitals, attached to thin hair-like tubes, entering our intestines and arteries to check them out for problems. Some robots look like flat round discs, working in homes and offices, buzzing around and cleaning floors at night when everyone is asleep. Some look like small wheeled vehicles, going into war zones, finding dangerous landmines, or rolling across the surfaces of the moon or Mars, taking pictures and collecting samples to send to scientists back on Earth. ### I Wish I Could See A Robot For Myself!If you have ever used, or even seen, a computer or a smartphone, you have 'seen' a robot! Yes, they are in those devices as well. Some of them even have names, like Siri and Cortana (have you heard of them?). They can help us find useful information - stuff for school projects, traffic reports (which roads have heavy traffic today? What is a good alternative route to take?), entertainment (where is the new Deepika Padukone movie running? And when is the next show?), and much more. They can even book our bus and train tickets, order our groceries, and tell us exactly how many calories we have burnt after a game of football.### What Does The Future Of Robots Look Like? What Will The World Really Be Like By, Say, 2040, As Far As Robots Are Concerned?We may not have robots walking our streets in India by 2040, but we will definitely be surrounded by robots of one kind or another without knowing it. It is quite likely that there will be driverless “robot” cars on our streets. We may have microscopic robots in our contact lenses that help us take pictures – we won't even have to hold our phones or cameras up to take them (but how will we take selfies??). And little airborne robots called drones will be flying busily all around – delivering letters, packages and kababs, putting delivery boys out of business, and hopefully reducing some traffic on our streets! As for 2085, 45 years AFTER that, who knows what robots will be up to?

Fatima loved Sunday afternoons. After a lunch of beans and kofta, Maa would read the newspaper on her favourite chair and Baba would sneak away to take a nap. Fatima could patter away with her book into the lively green forest near her house. The forest creatures would be sleeping, so it would be just her, curled up in the quiet hug of the forest trees. Fatima would sit down in the shade of the Arjuna tree and gaze into the leafy Up World. Maa had warned her not to climb the tree's branches. It was safe down below. Fatima didn't know what was in the scary Up World.But that day, Fatima was in for a surprise. As she turned a page, Fatima felt a dull THUMP! on her head.“Ouch!” she yelled, rubbing her sore head. It was a tiny book, barely the size of a pea. Fatima looked up and saw a furry animal trying to hide behind a bough of leaves.“Hello! Is this book yours?” she asked, peering into the Up World. But she got no answer. The pea-sized book belonged to Gopa, a young dormouse who lived in the Up World.Gopa's little house, made of soft dry leaves and twigs, was in the Arjuna tree as well. The dormouse had often seen Fatima reading, and loved the yellow ribbons in her hair. But Gopa's Amma had warned her about the terrors of the Down World.All the animals were fearful of Fatima and other human beings and tried to remain invisible to the Down World. That Sunday, Gopa had been swinging on her green, leafy hammock and reading. She was about to turn the last page when a strong breeze blew the book out of her small, furry paws. Down it went! It bounced on the branches and floated away. The book fell THWACK! and hit Fatima on her head.Gopa's tail quivered and ears twitched. The Up and Down World should never meet, she thought and bolted home. Fatima didn't climb the tree but kept squinting and trying to read the book. The letters were too small! Finally, she decided to return the book to the shadowy, furry creature.Fatima was really clever – next Sunday she tied five shiny, red balloons around her waist and suddenly, she was floating up. To the Up World!Up, Up, and Up went Fatima, until she reached the tree tops. Gopa was brushing her bushy tail when she spotted five, shiny red balloons!“Oh, balloons! Maybe it is someone's birthday,” she thought excitedly. But what was this?There was the girl with the yellow ribbons attached to the shiny, red balloons.“Run, run away!” squeaked Gopa, “The Down World humans are here!” But Fatima was faster. Fatima offered Gopa the book and asked, “Is this yours?”Gopa grabbed the book quickly and smiled. Fatima giggled. She caught Gopa staring at her ribbons and tied one in a neat bow around her tail. Fatima and Gopa held hands and went off exploring! Fatima and Gopa ran and skipped over the gaps in the trees of the canopy forest.They bugged Baankey the fruit bat, who was sleeping upside down. Baankey did not like being poked. He grunted grumpily, and flapped away to the next branch.“These kids will never let me rest,” he thought. Soon he was away in Dreamsville, where he was hanging out in a fig tree, biting into the fleshy, sweet fruits. Gopa helped Fatima hop over the long lines of weaver ants who were too busy to even stop and say hello. With long spindly legs and bubble-shaped bodies, the weaver ants scampered all over the tree.These ants love teams! They work together to stitch large leaves into cozy nests. Next, they bumped into Firki the canopy frog.“He looks like a rainbow,” thought Fatima. “Yellow feet, red eyes, and a blue body!” Firki was so surprised to see a human in his canopy that he almost let go of his strong grip on the branch! He croaked a weak hello and turned to pounce on his lunch – a grasshopper!“I thought only the Down World had frogs,” said Fatima, who loved chasing frogs around her house pond. Hari the Hornbill was watching them from a distance. He really wanted to be friends with them! Hari was a friendly bird but he made very loud noises, which is why some animals kept him at a distance. But Gopa and Fatima didn't mind at all. “The Up World isn't so scary after all,” thought Fatima. “How silly I was.”“The people from the Down World are pretty cool,” thought Gopa. “I am not frightened anymore.” “Sob! Sniff.”“Uh, oh, I think Vaidya is crying,” said Gopa.Her sharp ears picked up sounds easily. The two friends hurried towards Vaidya, a green vine snake, who was very shy. “What is wrong, Vaidya?” asked Gopa.Vaidya sobbed, looking greener than usual. “They cut down the tree that was my home. Now I don't know where to go,” he cried.Baankey, Dipu and other animals also popped out of their homes. Vaidya was homeless.“A new, concrete road is going to be built and humans cut down my tree,” wailed Vaidya.Cutting down their home! The Up World was alarmed and upset. “We must help Vaidya,” said Gopa.Fatima, Gopa and their new friends formed a search party. They searched and searched and found a snug tree-hole home for Vaidya. Fatima layered the home with soft leaves and orange flowers, Vaidya's favourite colour.Vaidya loved his new home. “I can't believe I have so many friends! We need to have a party,” he said. And what a party it was. Everyone got their favourite food. Gopa got nuts, Hari got fruits, Baankey was too sleepy to get anything, the ants brought home-stitched, leafy cushions to sit on! Nobody wanted Firki's grasshoppers. As for Fatima, she had to get the balloons.For the first time ever, the Up World and the Down World were just One World. Meet Fatima's Friends in the Up WorldGopa and her friends live in the vast forest canopies of India. That means they don't live in the Down World, like us human beings. Instead they live in the Up World, in the swinging branches and swaying leaves of trees.Many creatures that live in forest canopies are now used to living in tree tops. If you're lucky you will spot some of them, but most of these animals know how to hide themselves cleverly. So you have to be patient!When scientists go to learn about these canopies, they have to use ropes or ladders, because the trees are very tall. Some even use very large hot-air balloons to get up there. You can imagine just how Up Fatima had to go with her balloons. Here are some of the animals who living in forest canopies:Malabar spiny dormouse: This bushy-tailed animal likes to live in trees in quiet, undisturbed forests. It loves to eat fruits and nibbles on pepper sometimes. This dormouse sleeps like a hedgehog, curled up with its tail protruding OUT.Hornbill: These birds are vividly coloured with long and strong beaks. These sociable birds love to eat fruits, insects and even small animals. They make nests in holes in trees and when they have babies, they make a mud wall to cover up the hole, much like making a house! Green vine snake: A bright green, slender tree snake that hides in the leaves of a canopy. It moves very slowly. You can find them not only in India but also Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Burma, Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam.Tree frog: There are several kinds of tree frogs and they come in various colours. They can have white lips or red or yellow eyes and brown feet. They are usually very small, half the size of your palm, because they have to jump around delicate branches. They spend most of their lives up in the trees.Fruit bat (aka Megabat): They hang upside down. Try to imagine what the world looks like to them! They love to eat fruits and being busy in the trees. They can be super noisy too. You can hear them from a long way off. They have keen senses of sight and smell and are very helpful to us because they pollinate the flowers and fruits we love.

Mani put his Schoolbag down on the Coffee Table and groaned. His shoulders hurt, but his head hurt even more. It had been a long day. The Amulet around his neck flashed once.“Manikantan, put your Schoolbag where it belongs,” said the Coffee Table.“Yes Manikantan,” agreed the Schoolbag, “I don't belong here. I suggest you put me in your Room in a proper place.” Mani knew better than to argue. He picked up the Schoolbag and trudged towards his Room. He put away his Schoolbag on the Desk, kicked off his Shoes, and then lay down on the Bed. He groaned.“Are you not feeling well, Manikantan?” asked the Room.“I'm fine. Leave me alone.”Mani moved the Amulet to the back of his neck. He longed to throw it into the Trash. The objects in the House would still be able to spy on him but at least they wouldn't be able to talk to him.“You groaned twice.” The Room's voice sounded muffled. “Do you have a headache, Manikantan?”“Leave me alone.” Then after a pause, Mani added, “Yes.”“Tsk, tsk. So sorry to hear that, Manikantan.” The Room sounded very sympathetic. “I have let your Amma know. Perhaps you are hungry. That may be why you're having a headache. How about a nice hot cup of chai and some pakodas?” Chai and pakodas would be nice, though Mani wished the Room hadn't told amma he had a headache. Now she would worry.“Okay.”“Great. I have told the Kitchen. And Manikantan, put your Shoes in the ShoeRack.”“Yes,” said the ShoeRack, “I have plenty of space. Waiting.”Mani knew he should get up, but he didn't feel like it. Maybe he should just sleep a little. He was so tired.“Waiting,” said the ShoeRack.Mani closed his eyes and thought of Anandpuram. His Amma called it a village, but to Mani it was home. He recalled the graceful sway of the tall palm trees and the vast rose-blue sky. In the morning the gentle gusts of wind carried the wonderful smell of porottas cooking over charcoal fires. The winter months were the best. The cool air was nothing like the air-conditioned air in Smart City's buildings. No, wait, the rainy season was the best! It was such fun to watch the fat heavy warm droplets splish-splosh into the river Periyar.Oh, how he'd enjoyed sitting by the riverbank. So quiet, so peaceful. If only things could go back to the way they had been. “Waiting,” said the ShoeRack.Mani sat up with a sigh. He didn't mind being given helpful hints, but this was too much. It was almost like being a prisoner and nobody, not even Amma, understood. Mani placed the Shoes on the ShoeRack and headed for the Kitchen.He had to warm the pakodas himself, but the FoodGenie brewed some chai. It tasted exactly like the kind of chai a machine would make.“Is the chai to your satisfaction, Manikantan?” asked the FoodGenie.“As good as cow urine.”“Thank you.” Mani's Amulet beeped. It was his mother. She wanted to know whether he was feeling better.“How is your headache, kanna?” Her loving voice made Mani feel very sorry for himself.“The headache's better, Amma. How's work?”“Wonderful. It's not like my old Anandpuram job at all. How was your day, kanna?”“Great.” His Amma worked so hard, such long hours, worried so much about him, cared so much. She was his mother and father and all the family he had in the world. He just didn't have the heart to tell the truth.“I had a great day.”“You sure, Mani? Your SchoolBag told me you were sent to the Principal. What was that about?”“Nothing.”“Mani?”“Nothing! You can ask the Schoolbag. It seems to know everything.”“Mani, what's the matter? Look, why don't you go to the Mirror? I want to see you. Whatever the problem is, we can solve it.” “No, we can't solve it!” Mani felt tears beginning to form. He tried to press back the tears but they kept coming like the rain on Periyar.He knew the House would report to his mother that her son was crying. Everything he did was watched and reported. He knew it was all for his own good and he knew Amma loved him, but sometimes, he wanted things to be.He closed his finger around the Amulet, and pulled the chain so hard, it snapped. Mani threw the Amulet into the Trash, and ignoring its shouting, ran out of the apartment.Mani didn't know how long he ran or where he went or how exactly he got lost. Without the Amulet to guide him, he simply didn't know where he was going. But the smart objects of the City had guessed he was lost and alerted the proper authorities.After his mother had thanked the nice policeman who brought him back, Mani took the Amulet from her. He was ashamed but also really glad to be back.“I have adjusted some of the settings,” said his mother. “The House will now give you a little more privacy. But it is really for your own good, Mani.”“I know,” mumbled Mani.“So how was it, your little adventure?”Mani shuddered. The streets had been filled with people but they were all somehow different. They were all strangers. With the Amulet, the streets were filled with many people he almost knew. Their names, the kind of music they liked, who their friends were, lots of fun stuff like that. Without the Amulet even simple things, like crossing the streets, had become difficult. There was no voice to tell him: “You can cross now, Manikantan.” And nobody knew him either.When he had passed the poster for the movie 'Mission Maut', the hero of the movie Vikram Seven said: “Hi, do you like action movies?”If he'd had the Amulet, Vikram would have said: “Hey Manikantan, nice to see you again, yaar, let's talk.” Without the Amulet, every object was as stupid as a stone. “I thought so,” said his mother, with a small smile. “Now Mani, you know you shouldn't have left the House without the Amulet? We were so worried!”“I'm sorry I broke the rules, Amma.”“That's not always a bad thing, kanna. But you are a big boy now. You have to be more mature. Our life here is pretty happy, na?”Mani thought of Anandpuram. An Amulet would be pretty useless in Anandapuram. Maybe that wasn't such a good thing. He nodded.His mother was very sweet. She prepared dinner by hand — well, mostly by hand, the FoodGenie helped, just a little. Then she read him a story as he drank his milk. Later she tucked him into bed, gave him a good-night kiss, and touched her Amulet to his. He could tell Amma was very tired.“Good night, Amma.”“Good night, kanna.” “Good night, Manikantan, good night, Amma,” whispered the House. “Sleep tight, and I won't let the bedbugs bite.” The Internet of ThingsDoes your alarm clock know that you have exams tomorrow? Will it remind you to set the alarm so that you can get up early to do a final revision? If you are going somewhere and get lost, can your shoes give step-by-step directions? Of course not.Today, most of the objects we are surrounded are just objects. They don't really know anything about you or the objects in the house. The clock is just a clock. The radio is just a radio. The clock does not know what the radio does and vice versa. They are not connected to you or to other people or to the objects in the world.But things are about to change. Soon, all human-made objects will be interconnected. They will be more aware of what is going on around them. They will be smarter. They will be able to exchange data and keep track of your needs in a better way. When objects get interconnected and can communicate with each other, as if by an invisible telephone network, we say we have an Internet of Things.If it were up to you, would you like to live in Smart City or in Anandpur? Why? What if they all started talking?Count the number of objects in your home or classroom (door, chair, clock, radio, books, etc.). Are you surprised by the number?Imagine how it would be if they could all see and hear and speak. How would your life change?

This is Jadav, a tree-planter.He loves tree-places because they are full of life.No-tree-places make him terribly sad, because they are full of dead things. Years ago, Jadav was walking along the banks of the great Brahmaputra River when he arrived at a big, empty no-tree-place.It was dry and hot. The sand was powdery and striped. Striped sand? How odd.Jadav went closer to take a better look.Oh, but they weren't stripes at all! The ground was covered in snakes!Last night's floods must have washed them ashore, Jadav thought. These snakes weren't slinking and slithering and swaying about like regular, healthy snakes. When Jadav walked among them, they didn't hiss or run away or try to bite him. They just lay about like old ropes, tired and still."Poor snakes! They're dying from the heat! If only they had some shade to lie in! If only this no-tree-place had some trees in it!" Jadav couldn't bear to watch the snakes die. It made him so terribly sad that he sat down and began to cry.But he quickly came to his senses. "No more crying. From now on: only trying!"He jumped up, ran back to his village and began collecting all the bamboo shoots he could carry in his bag. "Regular plants won't grow in the hot sand, but bamboo will. Bamboo is strong!" Jadav brought the shoots to the no-tree-place and started planting them everywhere. It was hard, hot work, and it took years.The river grew thin one summer and flooded the next, sometimes bringing more sand and sometimes taking it away. Heavy rains came and went. But Jadav kept on planting. In time, the bamboo took root and began to grow. As it grew, it brought shade, and the shade brought insects.The insects burrowed into the ground, and the earth below the bamboo trees began to change. The dry and white became rich and brown, and the dead sand became living soil.Jadav was no longer sad. But he wasn't happy either.He looked around his bamboo grove and thought, "A few-trees-place is nice, I know.But how wonderful it would be if this were a many-trees-place!" The idea thrilled him.So Jadav went back to his village and began collecting many more seeds and saplings.He filled three big bags with Arjun and ejar and gulmohar and koroi and moj and himolu."Now that our few-trees-place has lovely brown soil, we can plant all these and more!" Jadav brought his new saplings and seeds to the few-trees-place and planted them all around.It was hard work, his back hurt, and it took many years. The orange and blue skies turned purple and pink, and villages became towns. The wind grew laden with dust, and the river became grey. But Jadav's insect friends helped to till the soil, and his tall bamboos gave him shade and cooled the air. And Jadav kept on planting. Soon, his Arjun, ejar and gulmohar, his koroi, moj and himolu, and all his many other plants dug in, took root and started growing.As they grew, they spread new seeds, and the new seeds, in turn, took root. Shoots became trunks, trunks grew branches, and the branches reached for the sky. The few-trees-place that was once a no-tree-place now became a wonderful, green many-trees-place.But what's a many-trees-place without many tree-creatures? When one came, the others followed. First, came the birds.They flocked and flew in from near and far, to make their nests in Jadav's tree-place. There were vultures and pelicans and storks and ducks. And warblers and thrushes and wagtails and chats. Next, came the animals.They skipped and swung and sauntered in, to make their homes in the many-trees-place. There were buffaloes and deer and rabbits and gibbons. And elephants and tigers and rhinos. Finally, there came the snakes.They slithered and swayed and sashayed in, to cool themselves in the shade of Jadav's trees.When Jadav saw the snakes, he sat down and cried happy tears. He was so happy that he wasn't even afraid of getting bitten. Jadav's tree-place had filled with feathers and beaks and wings, with claws and tails and fangs.There were spots and splashes, stripes and flashes, and green, green, everywhere.The tree-place was a forest, at last. And Jadav was a happy man.Then Jadav had another thought."Many trees in one place is good, I know.But how wonderful it'd be if there were many trees in every place!"So he grabbed his bags of seeds and started walking across the world.And as he walked, Jadav started planting the seeds in all the no-tree-places he saw.And he planted. And planted. And planted.But there are so many no-tree-places in the world.There are more no-tree-places than tree-places now.This is terribly sad, but Jadav does not sit down and cry this time. Jadav plants. And plants.And plants some more.It's going to be hard work, bringing all the old forests back.The seas have begun rising, and the winds grow cold.Towns have become cities, and Jadav is growing old.But he keeps on planting. And planting. And planting. Jadav will keep on planting until the whole world is a happy, lovely lots-of-trees-place. Jadav in Real LifeJadav ‘Mulai' Payeng is a conservationist and recipient of the Padmashree, one of the highest civilian honours awarded by the Indian government. Jadav lives in Majuli, Assam.At the age of 16, distressed by the sight of dying snakes that had washed up on a sandbar banking the Brahmaputra, Jadav decided to plant some trees in the spot. He started small, with bamboos, and grew an entire forest, plant by painstaking plant. This was back in 1979.Over the next three decades, Jadav and his tree-planting have managed to change the soil in the barren area. The 550-hectare sandbar is now a lush, dense forest and home to a variety of flora and fauna, including elephants, tigers, apes, deer and many species of local and migratory birds. Jadav continues to visit and nurture his forest every day, planting wherever he finds empty patches. Growing Up With a Mango Tree:a Tree-Planting ActivityJust ate a mango? Loved it? Want another? You can go to a shop and buy one, of course. But it's a lot more fun (and free!) to use the seed of the mango you just ate and make a few fruits of your own. All you need is time and patience.First, find a nice patch of empty land near your house. Get a friend, sibling or grown-up to help you plant the seed you saved in that patch. Make sure the soil is loose and there's plenty of sun. It may take several weeks of waiting, watering and watching before your seed turns into a plant, so don't worry and definitely don't hurry.Once your seed germinates and grows into a healthy mango plant, get ready for a lot more waiting, watering and watching. Take care that your plant doesn't get eaten up by insects or animals, or get stepped on by someone. If all this waiting is making you feel bored, read a few books, sing some songs, and plant some more plants!After a few years, as you grow taller, your mango plant will grow tall with you, until it becomes a big tree that you can climb and picnic under. This is when the real fun begins. By now, your tree will have started making its own mangoes, which you and your friends can eat. Even better, those mangoes will soon start attracting other mango-loving creatures to your tree: birds, ants, squirrels, bats, monkeys, spiders and lots more.Some of these creatures will come to eat the fruit, some will come to feed on the tree's sap, some to drink nectar from its flowers, and some creatures will even come to eat some of the other creatures hanging around the tree. But it's not all about eating. Some creatures may come just to rest in your tree's shade, or to take a nap in its branches. Your tree has many different uses for every different creature!Spend some time every day watching who visits your mango tree, at which time of the day they come, and what they do. Write down what you see in your notebook. Also draw pictures of what you see.See how much you've done and learned with just one mango seed? Isn't tree-planting fun? Now imagine how much fun Jadav must have had planting his entire forest full of trees!

The Messy DeskIt was a damp morning and I was sitting inside watching the rain drops splash onto the sand making it wet and slushy to walk on. I took a glance at my desk...The messiest desk ever! I walked over to it and drew a big sigh and to my great, great, great astonishment, a little ant came up and talked to me! She started out as, “Yuck!”, big welcome speech, I know, right? “Noteven an ant can live in this “paradise” if she can't live without a wasp or a roach knocking on her door, just waiting to devour her!”, she spat out in disgust. “Um...Who are you?”, I demanded, nervously hoping she wouldn't have super-natural powers and turn me into some garden lizard. “Oh! where are my manners? I'm Cheenu, the sixth ant of the fifth column, fifty second row, thirty fifth line and ...” “Come on, give me a break! Term holidays just started!”, I thought to myself, getting annoyed at the thought of another math lecture. “And who may you be, oh, four feet tall giant who is standing before me?”, she questioned dramatically. “Oh...I'm Ananya...One millionth person you'd expect to be talking to an ant in this world.”, I murmured, praying fervently that she wouldn't whip out a gun and declare that I was her greatest enemy, like Buzz Lightyear did to Woody in Toy Story 3. “Nice to meet you, Ananya!”, she answered warmly motioning me to shake her antenna.In a minute, she was scurrying across my desk muttering something that sounded like this, “We'll need that thrown away...Ah, yes, a vase here and maybe just a little penholder thing over there, ooh! And a nice little pin-up board on top to remind you to not mess up your desk again. There, perfecto!”. Suddenly, I felt a bright bluish green light grip me and before I knew it, I was whisked away to some unknown land!At first, I was scared, but, when I looked around I just forgot to scream my head off and run away into the horizon. The sky was the brightest blue I had ever seen, the soil was smooth and warm unlike the harsh concrete floor I had been used to, I could smell tulips and lavenders in the fresh air blowing across my face, the crocuses were lovely to just gaze at, the clouds were as white as a brand new layer of snow, the sun shone brightly like a ball of gold. It was breathtaking to behold nature in such a beautiful way!Then and there, I knew that I would never forget this bright blue sky I had seen today. “Enjoying the scenery, are we?”, asked Cheenu, interrupting my pleasant thoughts. “Why have you brought me here?”, I demanded, purposely ignoring her question. “Oh, only because of your desk...”, deliberately letting her voice trail off. “What does this have to do with my desk?”, I questioned, even though I wasn't really surprised. “The only reason why I brought you hear was because there's a clean desk competition held by our mayor, King Antie Anty Anter Antag Anta Anten Antem Antman Antan.”, she replied. “Mr. Antie Anter -wait, what?”, I asked, seriously confused. “We call him King Nine A's.”, she said, smirking at my “slow” thinking process. “Okay...I think.”, I said, a bit unsurely.”Anyways, we have to go enter you into the competition!”, she cried anxiously and grabbed my hand and made me run to wherever she was taking me.“Here we are!”, she cried, sounding a bit nervous but at the same time delighted. I looked up and saw a huge anthill in sitting in front of my eyes, but, this wasn't a normal two feet anthill you'd see on a jungle trek! This anthill was taller than the tallest skyscraper in the world and looked like a fairytale castle, that too, with the most vibrant colors I had ever seen!Cheenu, literally, had to pull me inside as I was so awe-struck by this humongous building made by such tiny things of which we don't take any notice in our lives. When I entered the anthill, or rather the castle, I saw thick red carpets strewn on the floor, portraits and photographs of very posh looking ant ladies with beehive hair-dos, ant sports jocks in sweatshirts with bandanas on their pimple sized heads, ant duchesses and dukes in princely robes holding scepters and curtsying , and old ant grannies in babushkas. I looked ahead and saw an ant dressed in flowing robes, his hair slightly greying, sitting on a throne, holding a scepterin his right hand and the other handcautiously moving to his decorated sword hilt, with a wise look on his face. “Greetings Your Royal Antiness! I have come from the sixth house on Antsfort Avenue in the Desk of Danger and Disgustingness to enter Ananya, um, I mean, this human, standing beside me, into the Desk Competition on the fifth day of the fifth month of the fifth year of the fifth century, um, I mean twenty first century!”, she announced proudly and a bit nervously, bowing down before King Nine A's. “Rise Cheenu, ant from the sixth house on Antsfort Avenue! This human will be allowed to participate in the fourth competition of all ants from the Desk of Danger and Disgustingness which is on the fifth day of the fifth month of the fifth year of the twenty first century!”, he declared grandly. “Yes!”, both of us chorused, slapping a high-five onto each other's palm/sole.When we got back to the human world the first thing I did was stare at my desk for about a millionth of a second before exclaiming, “Cheenu! The fifth of June is tomorrow! How am I supposed to clear this up in one afternoon and evening put together?!”. She simply smiled and let a shrill whistle escape from her lips. I thought that I would be looking at every single dog in the country, the next minute. But instead, every single bird and insect were hopping onto my “oh so messy” desk. “Tweet, tweet! What can we do for you?”, asked one of the sparrows, curtsying cheerfully. “All you have to do is clear up and decorate “Madame Messy's” desk.”, she replied, glancing so sternly at me that I started to shift uncomfortably, ashamed of my “cleanliness”. “Ooh! I love cleaning things up!”, cried out a few beetles and spiders. “Great! Now, let's not be desk potatoes, and get some work done!”, said Cheenu, encouragingly. “Huzzah! Huzzah! It is time do something! Huzzah! Huzzah! But, hide when the telephones go ‘tring'! Huzzah! Huzzah! We love cleaning up! Huzzah! Huzzah!None of us are lazy grumps!”, they all chimed into what was, probably, their “Clean up, clean up, everybody clean up!”. “In a few extremely short hours my desk was the most “natural” looking desk on earth! Mrs. Chibby and Mrs. Chuzzette, the lovely old spiders spun detailed spider webs on the top and corners of my desk, Amanda and Miranda, the weavers, had built pen holders out of their funky nest material and John and Gabby, the beetles, had made glow-in the-dark paper ball lamps hanging from the top! It was awesome and I seriously wished that I had thought of taking a snap using the photo booth app in my laptop!The next day, we presented it and got second place, because some brainy ant computer jock had made a desk out of a computer and attached automatic iTunes to it. But still, I was the winner in the eyes of the cool beetles, wasps, ants, sparrows, parrots and macaws who helped me. Later, as usual, we had to say goodbye. I almost cried like a baby, that day! Cheenu bid a silent farewell and entered her home on Antsfort Avenue in the Desk of Dazzlement and Daintiness. She still visits me every now and then and we take crazy selfies and have some fun during those special moments. Who knows? You might be the next one to find yourself talking to an ant!

The Mango PickleIt was a bright morning and the sun was shining, it seemed as if absolutely nothing could go wrong when, ‘Tring, tring, tring, tring!', the telephone rang. Papa picked it up and answered. “Hello?”, he said. “Is this Ramesh?”, came a gruff voice, and, almost immediately, a frown spread across Papa's face. “Anna! Would you like anything?”, he asked, suddenly becoming polite and, instantly, I knew who it was, it was Mahesh Uncle, Papa's most feared elder brotherwho always managed to find fault in things no matter what. “I have some work to do in Chennai and I don't want to stay in one of those cheap hotels where they make the curry too spicy and the curd too sour. So, I want to stay in your house for two days, is that alright?”, Mahesh Uncle continued. “O-Of course, Anna!”, Papa replied, he was trembling all over, by now. “Good. Thank you!”, he answered and put the receiver down. “Gauri! Gauri! Anna's coming to stay tomorrow!”, he yelled, running into the kitchen where Ma was making dosas and chutney. “What?!But, that means I have to make your mother's spicy mango pickle that he loves!”, Ma cried out, who knew Mahesh Uncle was so hard to please? “Arre!Just find the recipe and make it!”, Papa answered, trying to make it sound like it was the easiest thing to do. “But, the maid accidentally threw it out, two months ago!”, Ma yelled back, frantically pacing back and forth until she realized that the dosa on the pan had become burnt. “Then go ask Shalini Akka!”, Paparetorted, literally stomping out of the kitchen, by the way, Shalini Akka was the launderer who was always humming whenever she was seen with a heavy bag of dirty clothes on her head.When we were just sitting down for lunch, Ma saw her strolling down the street humming one of her usual tunes. “Shalini Akka! Shalini Akka, wait!”, Ma called out from the balcony, waving her hands wildly. “Who called me?”, she wondered out loud and looked up at Ma. She was at our door, before you can blow out your birthday candles. “What happened, Amma?”, she asked innocently looking around. “Do you know how to make mango pickle?”, Ma almost screamed, desperately. I think Shalini Akka, who's hearing and eyesight was not to good since she was a bit old, heard as mango halwa. She quickly dropped her laundry bag at the doorstep and walked into the kitchen. She put all kinds of things into it while Ma sat on the sofa muttering thankfully.Here is the list of the ingredients Shalini Akka put into our delicious mango halwa:* freshly chopped up mangoes* salt (she thought it was sugar)* peas (she thought they were cardamoms)* salty butter milk (she thought it was milk)* a stack of cheese (she thought it was butter)Shalini Akka walked out beaming with pride and happily dusting her hands. Ma didn't even look at it before closing the jar with a lid. After one hour, Ma started to fret. “Shalini Akka has an uncontrollable sweet tooth. What if she made it too sweet? Mahesh Anna won't like that. I'll call Mrs. Vohra from next door to check if it's too sweet and fix it if it is.”. In five minutes, Ms. Vohra, our neighbor, came and opened the pot while Ma was glamouring herself for a friend's wedding. Mrs. Vohra was inexperienced when it came to the art of cooking and didn't realize that it was actually mango halwa, only that this mango “pickle” was too sweet like Ma had thought. Immediately, she got down to work, here are the ingredients she put into our mango “pickle”:* sliced green mangoes* hot chili powder* whole chillies* saltDone! Another version of our mango pickle was completed! The moment Mrs. Vohra left, she left Ma in a pensive mood. “What if she made it too spicy? Mrs. Vohra loves spice what if she put extra spice into it? Mahesh Anna won't like that either. Let me ask Mr. Rastogi to come and check if it's okay.”, she thought out loud and her hands flew to the telephone. In one second, the doorbell rang. And in an old man came shuffling with a sturdy wooden stick held firmly in his wrinkled hand. Mr. Rastogi was old and experienced in cooking but, unfortunately, his hearing and sight weren't as good as his hands. Next minute, he was in the kitchen stirring and chopping and adding every single ingredient, here is exactly what he added:* bitter gourd (he probably thought it was an oversized green chili)* ketchup (he probably thought it was chili sauce)* green bell pepper (he probably thought it was a green mango)And yet, another version of our mango pickle was completed! He went away with a triumphant grin on his face, seriously, I thought that his jaws would break if he smiled any longer!Ma put it in the fridge and crossed her fingers for the very best. Next afternoon, Mahesh Uncle arrived. His “grand” entrance was made by yelling at the taxi driver for placing the fare too high, while the poor driver was shivering from head to toe. “Hello, Mahesh Anna!”, Papa greeted him, putting on a polite tone, while Ma stood behind him with her hands folded respectfully. “Is lunch ready? Have you made mango pickle?”, he demanded, deliberately ignoring both of them. “Yes, Anna. Please have a seat.”, Ma gestured him towards the dining table. Later, Ma brought the mango pickle and served it with curd rice. I hoped fervently that he wouldn't storm off anddeclare that he would never come back. Ma produced a shiny silver spoon for Uncle to use. He scooped half a spoon of the mango “pickle” and shoved it into his mouth. And then, came the unexpected reaction that I hadn't even dared to hope would happen. “Mmm!Delicious! Superb! This is the best mango pickle I've ever tasted in ages! I don't really think I want my mother's mango pickle anymore, ah, yes! From now on, you will make only this mango pickle and nothing else!”, he beamed at all of us, while, shoving another spoonful of the “pickle” in his mouth. Oh My God! Who could ever like such a thing! Then again, instead of complaining, I should be thankful he didn't box Pa's ears. Maybe you should try this recipe!(Warning: Don't really make it! It tastes horrible! I just tasted it!)

Dear... well, you know who you are. And it's not like you're ever going to see this letter.Miss told me that I had to be your mentor and show you around because you are a new student. I didn't know what a ‘mentor' is, so I looked it up in the dictionary. Anyway, she didn't tell me anything about that.Ali and Gaurav and Sumi and Rani, they kept asking me about it when we were going home from school. I told them that I didn't know what they were talking about, but that's not true. How can I not know?See, you made me lie to my friends.Yours sincerely,Me Hi again,Ma says that it is not good to stare at people, but I can see that everyone stares at you. They stare at me too because I have to hang around with you and be your ‘mentor'. Why did you come to our school? Why couldn't you continue going to whatever school you went to earlier?Do you know what happened yesterday? Gaurav, Ali and two of their friends from Class VII cornered me after school to ask about you-know-what. They took my bag and wouldn't give it back. Then they threw it into the thicket by the side of the road and I had to scramble down into the mountainside to get it. I tore my shirt and Ma was angry with me.This is all your fault.Me Hello,I keep telling them that they can ask you whatever they want to know. What's the point of asking me? How am I supposed to know why you have that thing or how it works?To be really honest, I can't say I'm not curious myself or that I don't have the same questions the others are asking me. Yes, I noticed it the first day when you came into the classroom. I saw how you did everything with one hand and how your left hand never moved. At first I couldn't tell what the problem was. Then, when I came closer, I saw that something wasn't quite right. It looked weird, like it was covered in plastic or something. Then I thought it was a toy hand. It took me some time to understand.Also, I saw what happened at lunch.See you,Me Hello,My oldest sister, the one who's studying engineering in Delhi, called today. I told her, “There's a girl in my class and she has a fake hand,” and she said that the term is “prosthetic hand”.Listen, I have some advice for you. You may be new and all, but if you want people to stop staring at you and talking about you, you have to stop standing in the corner all the time. Why don't you play with us? Why don't you come on the swing? Everyone loves the swing. It's been two weeks, and you can jolly well come by yourself. I am not going to be your minder for ever.Sometimes I don't know what to say to you.Me Hi again,After the lunch incident that day, I've been watching you. I'm just curious. Is it weird to have one hand? Is it only your hand or is your entire arm fake, sorry, prosthetic?Today, Sumi, Gaurav and I walked to school together. They were playing a game they made up called One-Hand Challenge. The rule is, you have to do things with one hand. Like, packing your bag or buttoning your shirt. Sumi couldn't tie her shoelaces and she forgot about it and tripped and fell. She got a cut on her chin. Miss saw it and, even though she put some antiseptic cream on it, she scolded Sumi for being careless. “You can't run around in the mountains with your shoelaces untied. What will happen if you fall while going home or something?”I think adults worry too much.Yours truly,Me Hi,Do you know what a coincidence is? It's like when you talk about something and the same thing happens sometime later in a completely unrelated way.In my last letter, I was telling you about Sumi and the shoelaces, and then, today, I saw you tying your shoelaces. Wow, that was awesome! I think you did it faster than I can do it with two hands. If you were my friend, I would challenge you to a shoelace-tying race. Or no, maybe I would ask you to teach me how to do it with one hand.I have to confess, I did try to tie my shoelace with one hand when I got home. But it's impossible. How do you do it? Maybe I'll ask you tomorrow.Curious,Me Hi,So, after what you said, I've tried to do a lot of things with only one hand, but it's so difficult! I still don't get how you do it, like having a bath, wearing your clothes, packing your bag. Since that day at lunch, I did realize that you have to do some things differently, but it's not like you don't do almost everything the rest of us do.Listen, I'm sorry about what I said earlier... about playing with us. I guess you were just feeling shy. And also about coming on the swing. I tried and it's hard to get your balance if you don't hold it with two hands. But you're great in the jungle gym, even if you don't hang from the bars, and you can run really fast, even faster than Ali, who won the first prize at Sports Day.Bye,Me Hello!That movie was really funny, no? I laughed so much that my stomach hurt and it was like I was crying. I always like it when they show movies in school. It means no classes.Last time, before you came to our school, they showed this movie about a tiger cub who got lost. It was quite scary, mostly because it was a true story. Later someone found it and managed to get it back to its family. True stories like that are called documentaries, did you know that? Tiger cubs are cute, no?Last year, there was a puppy near our house. It was very cute too, but it grew up and then it wasn't so cute any more.Got to go now!Me Hello, hello!Did you know? I was so surprised when I saw you on the bus. I had no idea my father worked in the same place as yours! But I'm so happy you came for the office picnic, because last year when they took us, there were no other children my age and I got really bored.Okay, I'm really tired, so I'm going now. See you in school tomorrow.Me Hi,I think I should warn you, Principal Sir becomes slightly insane whenever Annual Day comes along. He might yell at you — he yells at everyone — so don't take it personally. My ma says that he's under a lot of pressure because our Annual Day performance reflects on him.I'm not sure what that means, but he does look stressed out. Did you see his hair? It was like he touched a loose wire and got an electric shock! Though I think it was very mean of Rani to put a frog in his chair.Okay, I'm going now before he catches me writing this letter!Me Hey,Your new hand is so cool! No offence, but the old one was a bit boring. It was just... there. The new one is like magic, and you can move the fingers and grip with it! I hope you didn't mind that I asked to shake hands. I just said it before I could think. Maybe tomorrow we can do some experiments to find out if you can lift stuff with it.Oh! I just realized, the last couple of letters I wrote to you, I didn't mention your prosthetic hand at all. It's like I forgot all about it and wanted to tell you so many other things. The funny thing is, I'm not that curious about your hand any more. I don't know why.Your friend,Me THE FRIEND-O-METER QUIZHow good are you at helping people fit in? Take our Friend-o-Meter quiz to find out!1. Your teacher asks you to show the new student in school around. What do you feel?a. Fantastic! A new friend!b. Why can't they figure things out themselves?c. Uh oh...2. A girl in your class walks with a limp. The others laugh at her. What do you do?a. Nothing – it's none of your business.b. Tell her to ignore them – they're mean.c. Ask your classmates to imagine if they were different. 3. Your new classmate is having trouble with his lessons. What can you do?a. Tell the brainiest student in class to lend him her notes.b. Tell the teacher – it's her job to help him.c. Ask him if you could help him with his work.4. The new girl in class is rather shy. She doesn't play with anyone. What can you do?a. Let her be – she'll join in when she's ready.b. Call her over and make her join in the games.c. Go and sit next to her – maybe she'll start a conversation. Get your score:Q1.a - 1; b - 2 ; c - 3Q2.a - 2; b - 1 ; c - 3Q3.a - 3; b - 2; c - 1Q4.a - 2; b - 1; c - 3Now add it up. If you've scored... 4-6 points:You are a born friend, always ready to lend a hand. You don't wait for people to ask for help – you're already there, waiting to give it to them.7-9 points:You are an independent person and feel that people should be too. But that doesn't mean you don't care – you just don't want to force anyone.10-12 points:You might be a little shy, but you are kind-hearted too. You'll do whatever you can indirectly to help others and make them feel at ease.

Have you heard of the World Wide Web? No? Never mind.Now, have you heard of the Internet? Yes? Great!But what IS the Internet? Did you say “I am not quite sure, but I know it has something to do with computers”? You're right – it does. But that's not the whole answer.What's the WHOLE answer then? Hmmm. We need an EXPERT to answer that. And guess what - I know JUST the person! She's usually to be found near a computer, so let's go straight to the computer now. Hi Nettikutti! Here is a group of kids to meet you! Come on out, come on out, wherever you are!THERE you are! Go on, kids, say hello! And don't be fooled by her cuteness and her size – she holds a LOT of information in her little head! So Nettikutti, here's what everyone wants to know - What IS the Internet?Ooooh. BIG question. Let's see how I can put it simply.The Internet (short for ‘INTERconnected NETworks') is a large, large, LARGE collection of computers from all over the world that are connected to each other. The computers could be gigantic computers (the kind research laboratories or governments own), desktop computers (the kind you see in banks and computer centres), laptops (the kind people sling across their shoulders and carry with them), cellphones (the kind that ring so loudly and annoyingly in movie halls), and even the little music players with the itty-bitty headphones that seem to grow out of people's ears. All these computers are connected with each other either by real wires and cables - cables that run above the ground, underground, even under the sea (big computers) - OR by wireless signals (laptops, cellphones, music players).So you see, you don't have to be sitting in one place and have your computer plugged into an electric socket to be on the Internet – you can even be connected to the world while you are on the move! That's it? We thought the Internet was about talking to friends and downloading film songs and booking movie tickets and looking for information for school projects and finding the telephone number of a hospital!But that's not the Internet. All THAT is part of something truly magical, something called... wait for it.... the World Wide Web! This World Wide Web - let's call it W3 for short – is a large, large, LARGE collection of what are called PAGES (there are some 40 BILLION public pages on the W3 now!). A page could contain information in the form of words, numbers, photographs, songs, video clips, and more. This collection of pages (or the W3) ‘sits' on the Internet, in those millions of computers and cell phones and music players. The Internet is a network of networks made up of computers, laptops, tablets and mobile phones. W3 is a collection of connected pages, that is on the Internet.So the W3 is NOT the Internet itself, but one PART of it, the coolest part. If you think of the Internet as a restaurant, then the W3 is the most popular dish on the menu. And the spoon that helps you dig into this dish and get to your favourite bits of it is called a ‘Web Browser'. Oooooh! Now you've made us hungry, Nettikutti! But do tell us more about what makes the W3 so popular.Sure! The W3 is super-exciting because it includes:Email – which allows you to send letters to anyone anywhere in the world – and have them receive it in under a minute! The same letter – if you were sending it to someone in America, say, would have taken 15 days to reach him if you had mailed it through a post office. And it would have cost you a lot of money too. But email is free! Search – which helps you find useful – and useless! – information on a million different subjects.You may want to know which states the River Ganga flows through, or see what the Statue of Liberty looks like. You may want to hear the latest film song of your favourite actor, or watch an episode of a serial that you missed. You may want to find out the score in the T20 World Cup, or see if there are tickets available on the Mumbai-Pune train tomorrow.If someone whose computer is connected to the Internet, somewhere in the world, has decided to share this information with the world and put it on the W3, you will be able to find it - instantly! And for free! But Nettikutti, HOW do you find the page that you want, out of all those billions of pages?Easy! Each page also has a unique ‘address' which helps your Web Browser find it, just like your home address helps the postman to find your house. So if you know the page's address, you can go to it immediately.What if you don't know the page's address? No problem! You can use a wonderful service called a ‘Search Engine', which also sits on the W3, to help you. Sharing – which helps you share ANYTHING you want – a song you love, your dog's picture, a clever way to solve a difficult maths problem, your big idea for keeping our streets free of litter – with everyone in the world! No single person owns the Internet or the W3, and no government has authority over it*, so you don't need to ask ANYONE for permission before you share.Think about how cool that is! Until now, you had books and movies and television and newspapers giving you information, ‘talking' to you, but YOU couldn't talk back to THEM. With the W3, everything has changed – you can listen, and YOU CAN HAVE YOUR SAY too. And you don't have to be an important person or a grown-up to do this. THIS is what makes the W3 so fantastic – it is a truly free and open AND democratic system – it gives EVERYONE who is connected to the Internet a VOICE.*Governments do 'control' the internet in their own countries, however. Governments can even 'switch off' the internet, so that their citizens cannot access it, and some have actually done so for short or long periods. Wow! That's great, Nettikutti! Now, on a completely different tack – we understand why the first two Ws in W3 stand for World Wide, but why is it called a Web? Isn't it the INTERNET that is actually a web?Good question! You're right about the Internet being a web (because of all those computers being connected to each other), but SO IS THE W3. Let me explain.Remember those billions of pages that the W3 is made of? THEY are all connected, or ‘hyperlinked', to each other as well! That means you can go from one page to another almost endlessly! Do you see now how the W3 is ALSO a web, a HU-MUN-GOUS web of knowledge and information and entertainment for all humankind to enjoy and use? We do, we do! Now we have to have to have to know - who was the superbrain who came up with such a wonderful idea?I thought you'd never ask! For the answer to that question, we have to go back in time some 20 years, to a nuclear research laboratory called CERN in Switzerland. Many scientists there, and across other labs in Europe, were working on projects together, but there was no way to share their work with each other quickly and easily. They would have to actually travel to each others' labs, or use the post office and courier services, to let their teams know how far they had progressed. One of the scientists at CERN, Tim Berners-Lee, was getting a little fed up of this, so he decided to figure out a way to share information better and faster. He came up with a big idea called ‘hypertext' – a way of linking information on computers together – to do this.The idea worked really well for CERN, and everyone was really happy. And THEN - Tim Berners-Lee had his SECOND big idea. He felt his invention would benefit other people as well, and that it would be selfish to limit it to CERN. He talked to the authorities at CERN, and persuaded them to let him share the idea of hypertext with other scientists all over the world, for free. They agreed! Berners-Lee shared his idea, and urged everyone he shared it with to improve it or add to it as they wished.The idea of being able to access and share information from anywhere on earth instantly was SO powerful and SO attractive that a LOT of people began to use hypertext.Since anyone could use their own ideas to make it better, people all over the world felt they 'owned' the internet, that it was THEIRS. Which was a wonderful thing. By 1993, the W3 had EXPLODED, with millions of people beginning to use it. Today, more than TWO BILLION people use the W3 in some way – that is almost one-third of all the human beings on the planet!Hmmmm. Life would be very different today if Tim Berners-Lee had decided not to be so generous, right?Absolutely! So don't you think we should cheer both him and the W3 with a big Hip, Hip Hurray?We should! We should, Nettikutti!Here we go. To Berners-Lee and the W3 - Hip Hip...... HURRAYYYYYY!

‘Choon Choon cheewn cheewn! What you ate? What you drank? Where you went? What you saw? I lost my bangles. That little boy who cries a lot is sick again. Don't go, you just came! Can I fly with you? Wait, I will get my blanket...'Chimni was three years old. She was a fair, tall and thin girl with silky brownish-black hair and a gaze that confused all the adults around her. She could stare for a long time, without really seeing anything. Or so the grown-ups thought. They could never guess what went on in her head every now and then. Chimni lived in an orphanage with eight other children. All the caretakers were didis. The owner was everyone's Mummy. There was no Papa. Every now and then some couples would show up and become friendly with one of the children. The didis would tell that child, ‘this is your Mummy now and this is your Papa'.Then the couple would take that child ‘home'. Some times the children would miss their departed friend for a long time. Some times the arrival of a new friend in the orphanage would ease their pain.-‘These kids know now what a home is, what Papa and Mummy are.'-‘It's good that the younger ones forget things quickly'.The didis talked among themselves and did their chores. -‘Imagine what Chimni would do if she understood more!'Chimni appeared to be just like other children – hungry for love, tender with younger children, fiercely competitive with others.And yet there was something unique about her.She was attracted to birds more than any other child in the orphanage. She would watch them for hours if she could. In fact, didis thought, she even walked and talked like a sparrow, or Chimni, in Marathi.Chimni often talked to the birds that came close to her window. Waving vigorously, she would ask several questions and tell many tales to them in a language known only to her and the birds. ‘Choon Choon cheewn cheewn! What you ate? What you drank? Where you went? What you saw? Can I fly with you? Wait, I will get my blanket....'-‘She talks to the birds.'-‘I have seen her sing to them.'-‘She may have been a bird in her previous life.'-‘She is definitely a bird in this life.'The didis would talk among themselves and do their chores.And one day everything changed.No one knows if Chimni saw it coming. Tears were rolling down the cheeks of didis. The older children looked sad. The young ones were hidden behind the doors.-‘They are too young to take all this', explained one of the caretakers. -‘Get a thali and kumkum,' the owner of the orphanage called out. ‘Our daughter is going away. Take her in your lap and sit; we will do a little pooja.'-‘But, she is going to her home,' muttered the father-to-be.-‘Yes', managed the mother-to-be, visibly choking on all this.-‘Why is everyone looking so sad? Get the sweets; give them to children.'-‘Chimni, you are looking beautiful, my darling! What a lovely frock Papa and Mummy have brought for you.Chimni was quiet, very quiet. Her eyes were piercing through every pair of eyes that dared to look at hers. The new Papa stretched his hands to pick her up. Chimni did not resist, just tilted her head away from the room and looked towards the small garden outside the veranda. There were no birds there. Mummy was holding Chimni's bag; it had a few of her ‘necessary' things, including the blanket. Chimni looked up in the sky. It was empty. There were no birds there.The minute she was put in the car, Chimni yowled out loud, her hands stretched towards the orphanage building.-‘Let's get going,' said Papa with a lump in his throat.-‘I am feeling guilty, said Mummy, with a lump in her throat.-‘It's ok, my little one; don't cry, we are going home,' comforted Papa.Unable to speak, Mummy kissed Chimni and held her tight. Chimni wailed inconsolably. Sometimes she would look at both of them. Sometimes she would look behind.Her face looked red. The eyes looked swollen.Water was offered and refused. New toys were given and rejected. Finally, Chimni pointed towards her bag. The bag was opened. She grabbed her little blanket and, hugging it, fell asleep in no time.Mummy and Papa were worried how she would adjust. They wanted a child, a girl, they could love and who could soak in their love. But now they were worried – what if she continues to miss her friends and didis and cry all the time?Days went by. Every day they were learning a few things about her – what she liked, what she didn't; what excited her, what scared her and so on.Every day Chimni was learning new things about Mummy and Papa – what they liked, what they didn't; what excited them, what scared them and so on.She would laugh with them, play with them, and go out with them. One morning when they woke up they did not see Chimni in her bed.‘Where is she?' Mummy rushed out to the bathroom. Papa followed. She wasn't there. She was not in the study. The drawing room and the kitchen too were empty. The main door was shut still.‘Where could she go from a seventh floor apartment?' There was panic in Papa's voice. Mummy was in tears now. Both ran towards the other bathroom that had a door to a balcony. The balcony door was ajar. Before they could enter the balcony, they heard choon chewn choon.‘Papa! Mummy! See, a Chimni has come.'There was a little sparrow on the balcony railing – not even a foot away from her. Chimni was standing there, holding the railing, surrounded by an excited looking sparrow, who didn't seem scared of her at all. Mummy hugged her. Papa embraced her and Mummy both. And together, Papa and Mummy said, 'indeed, a Chimni has come!'Chimni freed herself, walked towards the railing, bent her head up towards the ledge of the roof. She spotted a bunch of sparrows and went on:‘Choon Choon cheewn cheewn! What you ate? What you drank? Where you went? What you saw....'