His hoe was too short. His doorway was too low. His bed was too short. His bicycle was too short. This man was too tall! He made a very long hoe handle. He made very high door frames. He made a very long bed. He bought a very high bicycle. He sat on a very high chair. He ate with a very long fork. He left his house and lived in a big forest. He lived for many years.

A fawn was racing in the forest. He was ahead of the rabbit. He was ahead of the elephant. He leapt and cleared the stream. He ran past the crumbling wall. There was a large boulder on the grassy plain. He stumbled and fell down. He burst into tears. The monkey massaged his leg. Tears flowed from the fawn's eyes. Brother Bear picked him up. The fawn didn't stop crying. His mother came. She said, “Look, we'll beat up this bad boulder!” The fawn said, “Oh, don't do that or he will also start crying.” His mother laughed. So did the fawn.

This is a fat king. The fat king has a thin dog.The fat king and his thin dog go for a walk. The dog sees a bird.The dog runs after the bird. The king runs after the dog. They run and run.They run and run for many days. The king catches the dog. Now the fat king is thin.

"I am scared." "Ouch!" "Are you okay?" "My stomach hurts." "I have a headache." "I'm hungry." "I'm tired." "I'm sleepy." "I'm thirsty." "That's a shame."

Little Bear wakes up. Little Bear gives thanks. Little Bear puts on his clothes. Little Bear washes his face. Little Bear eats breakfast. Little Bear rides the bus. Little Bear learns. Little Bear eats lunch. Little Bear plays. Little Bear exercises. Little Bear goes home. Little Bear eats supper. Little Bear brushes his teeth. Little Bear puts on his pyjamas. Little Bear goes to sleep.

Look at the animals. The cow says, "Moo." The goat says, "Meh,meh." The horse says,"Neigh." The pig says, "Grunt." The chicken says,"Cluck." The dog says, "Woof." The farmer says,"Shhh!"

"I would like that one, please." "Do you have...?" "Is it okay if I sit here?" "That will be fine." "Would you like some of this?" "Yes, please!" "Could I see that one, please?" "Here you are."

This dress is long. This jersey is big. This bag is big. This belt is... This hat is small. The socks are short. But these shoes are new. ... they fit well.

Goat, Dog, and Cowwere great friends. Oneday they went on ajourney in a taxi. When they reached theend of their journey, thedriver asked them topay their fares. Cowpaid her fare. Dog paid a bit extra,because he did nothave the correct money. The driver was about togive Dog his changewhen Goat ran awaywithout payinganything. The driver was veryannoyed. He droveaway without givingDog his change. That is why, eventoday, Dog runstowards a car to peepinside and find thedriver who owes him hischange. Goat runs away fromthe sound of a car. Sheis afraid she will bearrested for not payingher fare. And Cow is notbothered when a car iscoming. Cow takes hertime crossing the roadbecause she knows shepaid her fare in full.

"Hi!""Hello!" "Bye!""Goodbye!" "This is Kama." "Hi, I'm Kama.""Nice to meet you, Kama." The phone is ringing. "Hello." "Hi, this is Sara." He hangs up. "Welcome!" "Please come in." "I'm sorry." "No problem." "Excuse me, please." "One moment, please." "This is Ali.""This is Leila."

It is spring. My mom says it is cloudy and raining outside. I put on my raincoat and my rubber boots. Let’s play outside! It is summer. My mom says it is hot and sunny outside. I put on my bathing suit and my sandals. Let’s play outside! It is fall. My mom says it is warm and windy outside. I put on my sweater and my shoes. Let’s play outside! It is winter. My mom says it is cold and snowing outside. I put on my underwear and my longjohns and my pants and my shirt and my socks and my winter jacket and my winter boots and my toque and my scarf and my mittens. Let’s play outside!

Grandmother Fox goes... through the forest over the hill under the fence behind the bear around the moose into the den out of the cold home to Little Fox.

"Thank you!" "I don't know." "Where is...?" "That way." "I don't understand." "Is this right?""Yes." "Is this right?""No." "Can I help you?" "Could you help me, please?""Yes, of course!" "Could I have that, please?""Yes, of course!" "Thank you!"

Kip feels like eating some noodles. Kip asks a friend to join him. They look for a place to eat. They find somewhere that sells noodles. Kip and his friend find a table. They sit down and call the waiter. The waiter comes. Kip orders noodles. His friend orders noodles too. They each get a glass of water. The waiter brings the food. They add sauce and salt, and stir the noodles. Kip and his friend eat the noodles. They are delicious. He drinks his water. They pay the bill.

Little Fox... That is too high. That is too deep. That is too far. That is too close. That is too much. That is too hot. That is too cold. That is too fast. That is too slow. That is just right. Thank you.

He is very tired. It is time to go to bed. He goes to the bathroom. He brushes his teeth. He goes into the bedroom. He takes off his clothes. He sits on the bed. He watches TV. He turns off the TV. He goes to sleep. He dreams.

Where can I get water. There is some water in the pot. It is too hot. Can this water be cold.

Boran and his daughter are out for a walk. They come to a café, and go in. In the café the waiter shows them to a table. Boran orders a coffee. His daughter orders a soda. The waiter brings their order. He pours the soda into a glass. She drinks the soda. Boran puts sugar in his coffee. He stirs the coffee. He drinks it. Boran asks for the bill. He pays the waiter. Boran and his daughter leave the café.

I am singing. She is waving. I am clapping. She is stretching. He is calling. I am answering. She is listening. What are you doing?

Carlos rides a scooter. He rides fast. There is water on the road. The road is slippery. He loses control of the scooter and falls off. Carlos is badly hurt. A woman calls for an ambulance. "There has been an accident. Come quickly!" The ambulance comes very quickly. Two men put Carlos on a stretcher. They lift Carlos into the ambulance. The ambulance drives to the hospital. A nurse takes Carlos into the hospital. She treats him. Carlos's leg hurts a lot, and he is worried. Two doctors operate on his leg. His parents visit him. They ask him how the accident happened. They drive him home. Carlos is using crutches.

Where is my cat? Is it under the bed? Is it on top of the cupboard? Is it behind the couch? Is it next to the bin? Is it inside the basket? Is it outside the house? Here it is!

He washes his hands. He washes his face. He brushes his teeth. He shaves. He showers. He washes his hair. He dries himself. He combs his hair. He cuts his fingernails.

Pehelwaan ji! He drinks ten litres of milk everyday. He eats fifty rotis. He lifts weights of a hundred kilos. He walks with a swagger. He orders all the children about. One day, Gappu said, “Will you wrestle with me?” Pehelwaan ji laughed. And then agreed. Both of them slapped their thighs! Pehelwaan ji caught hold of Gappu. Gappu tickled him in the stomach. Hee...Heee...Heeee... Pehelwaan ji jumped! As Gappu tickled him, Pehelwaan ji began to dance. Ha...Ha...Hee...Hee...Hoo...Hoo...Pehelwaan ji rolled about helplessly. And he ran away. The kids are not scared of him any more. He is scared of them.

There was a man calledNsangabisibe. This man had a son. The son'sname was Mudduawulira. One day the man said to hisson, "Let's go for a walk." On the way, they saw a verynice suitcase. It was packed full. The man got very excited. Hesaid to Mudduawulira, "Pick itup and we will take it home." The son did what the father toldhim to do. Mudduawulira putthe suitcase on his head andcarried it. On the way home, a snakeslithered out of the suitcase. Itlanded on Mudduawulira's feet! Father and son were both veryscared. Mudduawulira droppedthe suitcase. They ran awayvery fast!

Mai searches for a film to watch. She wants to go to the cinema with her best friend, Lisa. Mai takes her scooter to the cinema. They have agreed to meet there. At the cinema they say hello. They are excited to see the film. Mai buys tickets for both of them at the ticket counter. She also buys a big bucket of popcorn. Lisa takes the popcorn while Mai buys two bottles of soda. They show their tickets before they go inside to watch the film. They look for their seats. It is dark because the film has already started. They sit down to watch the film. It is a romantic film. That is their favourite kind. After the film they say goodbye and go home.

The alarm rings. It is time to get up. She gets up. She goes to the bathroom. She brushes her teeth. She rinses her mouth. She takes a shower and washes her hair. She dries herself with a towel. She gets dressed. She puts on a skirt and a blouse. She picks up her handbag. She takes her handbag and leaves for work. She walks to work. She arrives at work. She works in an office.

I live in a village inUganda calledKiwangala.It is a very nice village. The children in the village like to goto school.We like our teachers. We like to to read at school.We like to count numbers.1,2,3,4,5! We like to play with our friends. Weplay like to kick the ball. We like to eat bananas in ourvillage. We like to run after the pigs. We like to play with our friends.

First, he sweeps the floor with a broom. Then he vacuums. The vacuum cleaner works well. Then he gets a bucket of water and a mop. He mops the floor. He empties the bin and puts a new bag in it. He takes out the rubbish. He needs gloves, a sponge, and some cleaner. He scrubs a dirty spot on the floor with the sponge and some of the cleaner. Then he cleans the window. His living room is very messy. He tidies up. Now it is nice and clean.

This is a girl calledNorah.Her doll's name isSelah. Norah loves her dollvery much.Norah plays with Selahevery day.She sleeps with her dollevery night. One day, Norah couldnot find her doll.She looked everywhere,but could not findSelah.Norah got very worried. Norah did not know thather mother took Selahfor washing.She hung the dolloutside to dry. "I can't find my doll,"cried Norah."Don't worry," said hermother. That evening, Norah'smother gave the doll toNorah.The doll was very clean.Selah looked like a newdoll! Norah was very happy.She jumped up anddown.She danced.She laughed loudly. And she thanked hermother.

Tom has a toothache. His tooth hurts very much. He needs to see his dentist, but first he needs something for the pain. He drives to the nearest pharmacy. "I have a toothache," he says. "Do you have anything for that?" "Yes, here are some painkillers. You don't need a prescription for these." "Thank you. How much do they cost?" "They cost nine euros. But you should see a dentist." "Okay, I will call my dentist tomorrow morning." "If you need stronger medicine, you will need to get a prescription from your dentist or doctor." "Thank you! Goodbye."

He is eating pizza. It is tasty. She is eating chicken. It is spicy. He eats rice every day. She likes vegetables. She does not eat meat. She is a vegetarian. He does not eat peanuts. He is allergic to them. They are cooking. It smells good!

Yayeri the great onewakes up very earlyevery morning.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She is grateful for thenight past.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She prepares her bedvery well.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She greets her parentsand grandparents.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She cleans her facewith blue soap.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She brushes her teethwith the lughanotoothbrush.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She takes a cold waterbath.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She puts on her orangeschool uniform.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She puts on her blackshoes.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She hurries to herschool at Mbala.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She studies Science,Social Studies andMathematics.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She sings, and dancesotamenhaibuga, andplays football.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?"

This is my family. This is my father. This is my mother. My wife's name is Mona. I have two children. My son is five years old. My daughter is only two years old.

I can cook. I can ride a bicycle. I can sew. I can work hard. I can speak three languages. I can sing. I can look after children. I can laugh!

Once upon a time there was aPickpocketer called Matome. Matome tried to stealMmamontsho's purse. His handgot stuck inside her handbag. Matome asked Mmamontsho tohelp him pull up his hand fromher handbag. Passengers were very angry when they seewhat is happening.they called the train Gaurd. The train guard came. Mmamontsho touchedMatome's arm to release his hand from beentrapped inside her handbag. Matome was locked in jail for pickpocketing.

Ali's shirt is old. He needs a new one. He goes to the shopping mall to look for new clothes. In the shopping mall he cannot find the clothing store. He goes into a shop to ask for directions. "Where can I buy clothes?" he asks. The shopkeeper points to the other side of the mall. The clothing store is on the opposite side! Ali goes in and looks for a shirt. The shirts are too big for him, and quite expensive. He buys a new pair of trousers instead because they are on sale. He decides he will buy a shirt next month when he gets his salary.

Nanhi picked up her slate and chalk.She wanted to draw a long, l-o-n-g train. Nanhi first drew an engine which gave out a lot of smoke, for the long, long train. “Oh dear! Now where shall I make the coaches?” Nanhi wondered, for there was no more space on the slate. Nanhi put the slate and chalk down on the floor and thought. She drew a coach on the floor.Then a second coach, then another, and another, and another... Nanhi just kept drawing. Until her chalk got over.Nanhi got up and took a look. Wow!Her train was as long as the verandah! And off went Nanhi's train – Chhuk-Chhuk-Chhak, from here to there, so very far!

In my home village,there is a trader calledDembe. Dembe has a big shopin the village. The shop sells flour,sugar, rice, beans, andmany more things. Dembe and his wifehave three children.They all work hard inthe shop. During the holidays, thechildren help theirparents to servecustomers. They countthe money and givechange. Dembe has a businessbook. He keeps recordsin this book every day. Dembe and his wifehave a good house anda car. They keep goats, cows,chickens and rabbits.Their life is good. Dembe and his wifehave enough money topay school fees for theirchildren.

My baby boy is John Francis. He likes yellow bananasand apples. After taking his breakfast, he goes to play with a friend. He likes swimmingduring afternoon hours. He does his homeworkand draws differentpictures. John Francis has a big cock. He plays hide and seekwith friends. His favorite color is yellow. He likes pet animals very much. John Francis encourageshis friends to read hard,to have a bright future.

I am talking. You are walking. He is writing. She is sleeping. It is eating. We are reading. You are listening. They are driving. Everyone is doing something!

It is sunny. It is cloudy. It is raining. It is windy. It is snowing. It is cold. It is hot.

Tulima loves music. She listens to it every day. Her friends Carlos and Anita also like music. "Tulima, what sort of music do you like?" asks Carlos. "I like Western music, but I prefer music from my country, Ethiopia." "I come from Colombia. I only listen to salsa. It's great for dancing," says Carlos. Anita says, "I like romantic songs and music that makes me happy." What sort of music do you like?

A man called Kato lived inBunghumu village. He used to stealpeoples' animals. One day he went and stole a goatfrom the neighbouring village. Heslaughtered and kept the meat inhis house. The following morning the peoplefound out that Kato had stolen thegoat.They started looking for him. When they reached Kato's home,they found him roasting the meat.

"Do you have any family?" "Yes, my husband and I have two daughters and a son." "I also have two daughters, but I'm divorced." "How old are your daughters?" "Mina is four years old. She goes to preschool. Miriam is ten, so she goes to school." "All of my children are in school. My son will graduate next year." "That is great! They grow up so fast. What does he want to do afterwards?" "He wants to get a job, but I tell him he should go to university instead." "That's a good idea. I also hope my children will go to university someday."

I can't knit, cats can't write, fish can't blink... ... pigs can't fly! Dogs can't dance, ants can't read, crows can't sing... ... monkeys can't cook! But, monkeys can swing! Crows can caw... ants can bite...dogs can bark! Pigs can eat, fish can swim, cats can jump...and I can read!

Imagine a day..... whenwe could have a picnicon the shores of LakeVictoria. Imagine a day.... wheneveryone knows how toread and there arebooks in everylanguage. Imagine a day.... when i gave birth to my first baby. Imagine a day.... when all people in the world would livepeacefully as brothers and sisters. Imagine a day.... when I can walkon water. Imagine a day.... whenyour daughter becamea president. Imagine a day..... when you are about to be put in a graveand then you came back to life again. Imagine a day.... when peopledevelop wings, fly and reach wherethe creator is. Imagine a day.... when all the ground is covered with acarpet in the whole world.

"The days are starting to get cold. What is the temperature?" "It's nine degrees. It's still autumn, but soon it will be winter." "I'm looking forward to spring, but I prefer summer, when it's nice and warm." "I don't mind the cold. It's the rain and wind I don't like." "Look at those dark clouds. Tomorrow it will rain. It will be very windy too. Perhaps there will be a storm." "I hope not. I really don't like bad weather, especially thunder and lightning. I'm afraid the lightning might strike me."

My heart feels a lot ofthings. I feel happy when mygranny tells us storiesin the evening. I feel silly when I playwith my friend. I feel bad when my dadsays he does not havemoney. I feel loved when mymom gives me a hug.

It's hard to be still,it's hard to be quiet. It's hard to say no,to toes that wiggle so. It's hard to keep downthese merry feet, When sounds all around tap a happy beat.Cheep, cheep, cheep call the sparrows. Drip, drip, drip goes the tap. SHEE... SHEEEE... SHEE... sings the cooker. Crunch, crunch, crunch...... uh oh, I know what that is! “Why little one, have you wandered so far, away from your books, your toys and your cars? Why indeed? There's nothing here to hear or to see.” I look up at mamma. I look in surprise. Can she not see?Can she not hear? The cheep, the drip, the sheee... ... and the crunch? A world full of sounds, all waiting to be found?

Where is the rat? Find the rat in the bucket. Where is it? Look, look! Find it under the bed. Where is it ?A a a a ! Are you behindthe door ?No, you are not behindthe door. Where are you?Are you in the bag?No, you are not in the bag. Are you in thesaucepan? No, you arenot in the saucepan. Where can you be?In the cupboard? Where, where?I can not find you. Are you under the mat?No, no. In the case, oh yes.I can see the rat in thecase.

Suraj has a very special ball. He calls it Sher Singh. One day, Suraj was playing in the park with Sher Singh, the tiger-ball. A dog picked up Sher Singh by his ear and shook him.Sher Singh opened the dog's mouth and flew out. A dog picked up Sher Singh by his ear and shook him.Sher Singh opened the dog's mouth and flew out. He landed on a slide and rolled down, down, down. A fat boy came sliding behind him. Ouch!Sher Singh pinched the fat boy. The boy jumped up, and Sher Singh rolled on. He landed in a play tunnel and rolled round and round and round. When Sher Singh jumped out, guess who was waiting for him?Suraj!

Tiny shoot begins toshow, A tiny plantbegins to grow. Reaching highertowards the sun,Reaching higher untilit's done. Now it's a big tree, leafyand green, Spreadingit's branches so it canbe seen. The branches arestrong now, sturdy andsteady, The tree needssome fruit now, thebranches are ready. First comes the flowers,then come the bees,Then after the beescome the fruit on thetrees. The mangoes arepicked by my fumblinghands, And put into bigbaskets to eat or makejams. This juicy, red mangolooks delicious andfresh, Inside of the skinis bright yellow flesh. Just one bite to taste it,sweet, juicy, cool, Thatone little taste ismaking me drool! My mango is finished, Iate it so fast, I must getanother and it won't bemy last!

The wind roars.It roars past our home. The wind is powerful.It tears my kite from my hand. I run after my kite.The wind blows me away from the kite! The wind becomes a tornado.It carries my kite higher and higher. The tornado swallows me up!I see nothing, I touch nothing. Where is my kite now?Perhaps it is caught in a tree. Perhaps my kite is still flying in the sky. The wind finally dies down.I am still spinning. When I stop spinning I look around.Where did the wind go? I cannot see my kite anywhere.I cannot hear the wind anymore. Perhaps tomorrow I will find my kite.Now, I must go home, before the wind starts to roar again.

Look at us.Do you want to be our friend? My legs are very strong.I can run really fast with them. And my arms... such a nice swing! I like to draw.I use my hands for drawing. Should I draw your picture?I can see you with my eyes. The bird sings a sweet song.I can hear it with my ears. I think Ma is making halwa.I can smell it with my nose. Oh! This sugarcane is so tough! But my teeth are strong too! It is very sweet.My tongue just told me. I can sing.Should I sing you a song? Ma says I have a good voice. Does it come from my throat?

My brother is reading aschool book. My mother is reading abible. My sister is reading arecipe book. My uncle is reading anewspaper. Granny is reading amagazine. My little sister isreading a picture book. I am reading this book. Soon I will be able toread everything!

Let me tell you mystory.I start as a small spark. I run wild when thewind carries me. We are good friends,you and I. I cook your food. I light your night. I have many tricks. I am part of your family. But be careful whenyou invite me to yourhome.I don't like to be leftalone.

.......chairs and tables. ..... a lot of story books for childrenand adults. .....painted pictures onthe wall. .....white and blue clouds on theceiling board. Children and adults goto the library. ......My friends and I go to thelibrary in holidays. .........We read this book on dearday. ......My mother borrowed a picturebook from the library. ...... a place for me. .....a place for you. ....a place for all. ........i enjoy the library so muuuuuuuuch!!

Do you get the feeling sometimes that none of your clothes are just right? I do! The shirt buttons trouble me.The pants feel too tight on me. The lehenga seems to trip me.The choli does not fit me. My salwar keeps slipping.The golden zari keeps itching. The churidaar pulls and tugs everywhere.Nothing perfect seems to be there. This frock is too bright.Brother's T-shirt? What a funny sight! Papa's kurta is rather long.Mummy's sari is wrapped all wrong.Some things are well out of my reach. Oh, it really makes me want to screech! These clothes seem to say, ‘We shall trouble you all day.'But I have made up my mind today... ... to mix and match these clothes in a way that I have my very own style today!

For the very first time, Maaloo is collecting vegetables from the garden. He has collected red tomatoes, fresh brinjals and green lady's fingers. Dadi says, “Well done, Maaloo! Go and get some potatoes too.” Maaloo looked at all the trees, creepers and plants. Not a single potato could he see. “Dadi, the potatoes aren't ready yet,” said Maaloo, putting the empty basket down.“No Maaloo, there are plenty of potatoes. Look carefully,” said Dadi. Maaloo went into the garden once more. Kaaloo followed him.Maaloo was looking for potatoes when he heard, “Woof! Woof!” “Kaaloo! Stop, Kaaloo!” yelled Maaloo, running behind him. “Don't spoil the garden.” Maaloo saw that Kaaloo was digging away and what do you think was coming out of the mud?Big fat potatoes! “Well done, Kaaloo. You found the potatoes!” laughed Maaloo, filling his basket with potatoes.

Bunty loves to play with butterflies... ...and with birds. She loves to play with paper boats. She also likes to make sand castles. When Bunty goes back home,her mother asks her to clean up.But she refuses. "I hate soaps!" she screams. One night, she has a dream.The germs are all around her castle, and are attacking her. Bunty is chased by the germs.She runs for her life and screams, “Help... Help!” Suddenly, Soap King Bubbly appears.“Bunty, don't be afraid,” he says. “Go attack the germs!”the Soap King orders his army of bubbles. The army of bubbles chases the germs away. These days, Bunty likes to use soap,and she brushes and scrubs herself clean.

Samba's dad bought him a newschool shirt last market day. Now Samba never missesschool and it has become hisbest friend. Samba likes playing football inhis new shirt. He makes it dirty every day anddoes not want to wash it. In the field, he wants everyoneto see his new shirt. In the morning he goes toschool with the dirty shirt andfinds the teacher at the gate. Samba dodges school that dayand goes across the road toplay football. Unfortunately the new shirtgets torn.And Samba is punished fordodging school and tearing thenew school shirt.

This is my home. I live here with my whole family. We take off our shoes and chappals here. This is where we wash our face and hands. I hang my clothes on the hook. My grandfather keeps his stick in the corner. We also keep our mats there. My father keeps his motorcycle outside. But his helmet is on the cupboard. My mother and grandmother keep their saris in the trunk. Tasty food is cooked in the kitchen. When it is cold, we bring out quilts. When it is hot, we use a fan. When we have important guests, we bring out the chairs. You must come and visit my home. Come soon.

It has many colours. They appear together. You see orange. You see blue. You see red. The colours are so beautiful.

A crocodile has sharpteeth. A lion has sharp teethas well. A shark has very sharpteeth!Why do some animalshave sharp teeth? A cow has strong teethfor grinding. A bird does not haveteeth.How does a bird eat? Rats have big frontteeth. I used to have frontteeth. My front teeth fell out!How many teeth do youhave? Ingwenya inamazinyoabukhali Ibhubesi nalolinamazinyo abukhali ushaka unamazinyoabukhali!kungani ezinye izilwanezinamazinyo abukhali? inkomo inamazinyoaqinile okuhlafuna inyoni ayinawoamazinyo .idla kanjani? amagundaneanamazinyo amabiliamakhulu ngaphambili. benginamazinyongaphambili izinyo lamilangaphambili liphumileunamaziyo awungakhi?

My name is Kobole.I live in a small village. I was out picking fruits when I saw something I had never seen before. There were colourful lines in the sky. I dropped all the fruit and ran to tell people at home. People were standing outside surprised. I said happily, "It is a beautiful sheet hanging from the sky." "No! I think someone is pouring paint from the sky." Neno said. Some people agreed with me. Others thought Neno was right.We began to argue. A man from a faraway village said, "You are all wrong." We shouted, "Tell us what it is if we are wrong." The stranger said, "It is the rainbow.Have you never seen the rainbow before?" We asked the stranger, "What is a r-a-i-n-b-o-w?" Neno asked, "Is it ours? Can we keep it here?"We never got answers to our questions because the man had left.

All of us went to the Dasara fair. Papa bought Chintu fancy glasses. Mother bought me a bright blue cap. The baby got sugar candy. On the way home, a very strong wind came.It blew my cap away. My cap got stuck on a branch of the old Pipal tree. I cried a lot. And I did not eat my dinner. Later that night, the moon came up.It looked at my cap on the old Pipal tree. It tried on my cap. The moon smiled happily. I had to smile too. After school the next day, my mother gave me a shiny new red cap. “The moon sent it,” she said. That night, both the moon and I wore our caps and smiled.We were happy. Do you think the sun needs a hat? Guess which cap I am wearing today!

This is my picture. I am six years old. This is a picture of myfamily. My favourite food isfried fish and chips. I can draw my hand. I like skipping rope. My telephone number is(033) 342-6587.

Good Morning!Time to wake up. I DON'T want to wake up!I DON'T want to do the big job! I DON'T want to brush my teeth!I DON'T want to have a bath!I DON'T want to have idlis for breakfast! I DON'T want to go to school! Hmm...But, today's your class picnic at the zoo! I DO like idlis with sugar!I DO want to go to school!I DO like singing while I take a bath!I DO want to use my new tooth brush! Oops! This is urgent!I DO want to go for the big job!Here I come, like a rocket... DO please give way,DON'T stand in my way!

I like straight hair. I like curly hair. I like curly tails. I like straight tails. I like staircases which curl upwards. I like straight staircases.I like the straight road up the hill. I like the road that curls around the hill. I like to draw straight lines... I always draw curly lines... Want some Chakli? I love Chakli! Straight or Curly? Straight or Curly, who cares! We love Chaklis both ways!

In my village livesMister Kiio.Mister Kiio has a catwith black and whitespots called Safi. When Mister Kiio goesto work, he leaves thedoor open. Safi sits in the doorwayto watch over MisterKiio's house. When the neighbour'sdog comes close, Safistares at him andshows her nails. The dog runs away. When a neighbourappears, Safi is ready toscratch. The neighbour turnsand runs away. When Safi feels hungry,she pushes the doorand then closes it withher paws. She goes inside andeats her food. When Safi finishes, shejumps onto the sofa andsleeps. All you hear is,"Purr! Purr! Purr!" When Mister Kiioarrives, Safi stretcheshappily and welcomeshim home. Mister Kiio and Safi sitdown next to thefireplace and eachreads the newspaper.

Sane at home. It is Sane's birthday. Sane at the bus stop. Sane in the bus. Sane at the market. Ooh! Many fruits. Sweet apples. But where is mothermother? I went to buy a birthdaypresent for you. Thank you mum!

We love soccer. Moloko is teaching ussoccer. We are playing soccer. Moloko is the bestteacher! After the game,Moloko told us thatshe has a surprise forus. But she will only let usknow tomorrow. The next day we allcame early to the field.We all love surprises. Moloko has new soccerkits and balls for all ofus!What a great surprise!

This is Bekku.And that is me in the mirror. This is what I love to do... and this is what Bekku likes to do. This is Bekku's favorite place, and that is mine.When Bekku sees a mouse she runs after it. But if I see a mouse, I run from it. Then when I run after my beeping car, Bekku scoots out through the door ajar. When mamma gives us milk, we both go SLURP, SLURP.Then follow our loud BURP, BURPS! We like different things - that is very plain.Our common love for milk, this will always remain!

Last Monday,Nakittostarted school. She entered a newclass and met newfriends. Nakitto likes picture books. They went out for morelessons. They learn lettersounds. They rest after lessons.Nakitto sleeps near theteacher. They go for study tours. Nakitto reads with hermother at home.

Once upon a time,there lived a girlin Busolwe village calledNamagunga. She liked flowers so much.one dayshe went to fetch water from riverNakwiga. On her way, she found flowerswhich she admired somuch, waooooo! she said. When she returned she told hermother to also plan flowers at theirhome because............. In churches we find flowers. On our dresses we find flowers. On our shoes we find flowers. We all like flowers.

Long ago Hen and Eagle werefriends. One day, Eagle foundHen under a tree resting withher shopping bags. Hen wasstanding on one leg. Eagle asked Hen, "Where isyour other leg?" Hen told Eagle, "Theshopkeeper cut off my leg andgave me these groceries inreturn." Eagle asked Hen whetherhe could do the same.He also wanted a bagof groceries. Hen agreed. Eagle went to the shopkeeperand asked her to cut off oneof his legs in exchange forgroceries. The shopkeeperaccepted. The eagle hopped on one legall the way home. But he washappy with the thingsthe shopkeeper gave him. When Eagle reached home,he found Hen with bothher legs. Eagle was furious and chasedHen. But he never caught her.Instead, Eagle always looks outfor Hen's children. Whenever hecatches one, he eats it.

The little elephant's name was Golu. He was as round as a drum. The little rabbit was called Chhotu. He looked like a ball of cotton. They played together.One day, Golu said, “Let's play a new game today.” “You sit down. I'll land on your back in one flying leap,” said Chhotu. Golu sat down. Chhotu took a mighty leap. Thump! He landed on Golu's back.“Wow!” laughed Golu and said, “My turn now. You sit down and I will leap on your back.” “You!”“Yes, me.”“How can you do that?” asked Chhotu. "Like this!" Golu showed him. Thud... thud... thud...A shower of coconuts came down on Golu's head. He ran away on fat legs, scared. One small coconut fell on Chhotu. ‘That's better,' thought Chhotu, ‘Better a coconut than an elephant on my head!'

Joy played all the day. Her mother told her to wash. She picked up her tooth brush. Her mother put water in basin for her. She dried her face. She joined her sister to sleep. In the morning she brushed her teeth. Her mother helped her dress up. She tied her shoes. Joy goes to school. Joy is in class.

I have many friends. Some of my friends are older and... some of them are younger than me. Some of my friends are old. And some of them are tiny! Some of my friends have tails... Some of my friends have no feet. Some of my friends fly. Some of them swim. Oh! Books are my friends too! But who is my best friend?Who? Who? Who? My mother!!!

Hi, I am Khaidi. I am seven years old.I have a car, a lovely long car. Papa made it for my birthday. I love my car and love to drive it all day long.Drooomm... here I go ...drooomm... there I go.Drooomm... I go everywhere. I visit my relatives driving my car,and in school, my friends want my car.I love my grandma and she loves to see me drive. With my car I can go round and round my home.With my car I can go around the earth.I can go around the sun, the moon and the stars. My little brother loves riding on my car.Mummy tells us not to do so, but do we care! Now, here I am without my car and...my brother without his tooth!But still we go drooomm...with my brother on my back!

I peel the potatoes. I chop a cabbage. I grate the carrots. I wash the beans. I cut the butternut. I chop the spinach. My mom chops theonions. Onions make me crywhen they are chopped.

Not here, not there.Where have you gone? Not on the sofa.Not under the cot. Not in the box.Not under my sister's frock. Not under the pillow.Not in my bag.Sob, sob, where have you gone? I have looked in every room,l have looked under every book. I have looked under the chair,I have looked under the stool.Where have you gone? Soon granny came back from her walk."Look what I found in the park." "It can sway, it can bounce.It can spin, it can dangle.Ha-ha, hee-hee," said Granny with a giggle. Oh Granny! Thank you so much!You have found my dear yo-yo! "Yo-yo? What a funny name!What a funny toy!I want to play with it,It gives me so much joy!" Giggle, giggle, giggling away,Granny played, with my little toy.For the rest of the day!

How many legs do twoladybirds have? How many wings dofour birds have? How many horns dothree rhinos have? How many trunks dofive elephants have? How many ears doseven dogs have? How many tails dothree monkeys have? How many eyes do sixcats have? How many legs doesone worm have?

My name is Simo Meet my new friends Zizo, Lele, Sisa andAyanda Zizo loves football Lele loves to swim Sisa loves to play hideand seek Ayanda loves reading I enjoy everything myfriends love I will play football withZizo Sometimes I swim withLele Or even play hide andseek with Sisa Come on , make newfriends and have fun Play football together Swim together Play hide and seektogether Or even read together

Two small streamsformed River Temu. Thesheep, goats and deerlived because of RiverTemu. But when Matatabecame headman, hecut down trees. Hemade a path from thetop of the hill to thebottom. Matata's children andtheir friends ran all overthe place. They brokebranches. They lit firesand left them burning. River Temu stopped flowing. Thedeer went away. The sheep andgoats grew thinner and thinner. The people chased away Matata,the headman. They appointedBaraka as the new leader. Thepeople were happy. The path was closedand grass grew onceagain. River Temu wasrevived. The landbecame greener thanever before. People sang, "Long liveBaraka, long liveBaraka." "May ourchildren and children'schildren forever respectRiver Temu."

Why is the baby crying? I think she is hungry. Why is the boy sad? I think he is missing his father. Why is the girl happy? She has a new dress. Why is the old man laughing? He read a good joke. Why is the lady smiling? Her children are reading quietly. What is this lady feeling?I think she is feeling shy.

Why is the sky blue? It is not always blue. Is it? Why are leaves green? They are not always green. Are they? Why are bananas yellow? Ripe bananas are yellow. Raw bananas are green. Why are umbrellas black? All umbrellas are not black. Why is blood red? There is iron in the blood. That makes it red. Why is salt white?I don't know.

One elephant went todrink water. Two giraffes went todrink water. There are threebuffaloes and fourbirds. They are all goingto drink water. Five impalas and sixwild hogs are going todrink water. Seven frogs and eightfish are in the water. Nine zebras are goingto drink water. One lion came to drinkwater. Who is brave enough tocontinue drinking?

Am I a good boy? Yes, you are a good boy. Am I a sweet girl? Yes, sometimes you are a sweet girl. Is he a bad boy? Yes, sometimes he is a bad boy. Is she a naughty girl? Sometimes she is very naughty. Is he a quiet boy? He likes noise. You are the best.You are the best too.

As I was moving inBuŋaanga village Ifound a fat hornbill. When I struck it with acatapult, it shouted"ŋaa, ŋaa, ŋa!" The hornbill flew intothe air.But I ran after itthrough the grass... ...until it perched on adead tree.Then I shot it again.This time it fell to theground. I picked up the hornbill. And I gave it toHiryagaana: one whoeats whatever he finds.(One time, I gave himNamupongera.)He happily received thehornbill. The head of the hornbillwas very big and ashard as a panga ormachete. The bird had fat likethat of a sheep.It was so appetising! It's not easy to find ahornbill withoutplanning.At night, hornbills rooston dry branches.A person eats what helikes.That is why Hiryagaanaeats hornbills.

This is cow. Cow is cool! By day, it is an ordinary cow. Flying a kite. Kicking a ball. By night, a supercow! Saving lives... ...and fighting crime. But if you close your eyes really tight, and make a wish... Cow might come to visit you too! The end.

Jojo is a young boy. Jojo living with hismother and a milk cow. Jojo loves the cow. Every morning Jojo'smother milks the cow. Jojo takes the milk. Jojo takes the cow tograze Jojo gives the cow thewater. Jojo's mother cooksfood. Jojo enjoys food Jojo plays the ball withhis friend. Jojo reads his book. Jojo says bye to the cowand go to bed to sleep.

The dog wants to catch the bird. Dog goes to man for help.Please help me catch the bird. Man swells up in anger. Why do you want to catch the poor bird? I am going to teach you a lesson. I am going to teach you a lesson. GOTCHA!!! Understood? No more chasing birds.Good Dog.

I read with friends. I learn to writenumbers. I learn to write letters. I play with friends. I sing at school. I can dance too. I also go to garden withthe teacher and friends. Teacher sings for us alullaby. What do you do at yourschool?

I like to read. Who can I read to? My sister is asleep. Who can I read to? My mother and grandmother are busy. Who can I read to? My father and grandfather are busy. Who can I read to? I can read to myself!

A cloud rolled along merrily in the sky. The peacock said, “Why don't you rain? I will dance for you.” The fish said, "Please rain. I need more water." The farmer said, “Please rain. I'll plant seeds for the next crop.” Raju said, “If you rain, I'll sail paper boats.” The cloud rained in a shower of shimmering drops. The peacock spread its pretty feathers and danced. The pond filled up. The fish was happy. The farmer started planting seeds. Splish! Splash! Splosh! Raju and his friends had a wonderful time in the puddles. The cloud filled everybody's heart with joy. It moved on. All the children waved goodbye.

A hut is made using poles, grassand mud. A hut has got one door and twowindows. Huts are very good to stay induring dry seasons because theyare cool. Huts are also good to stay in Whenit is raining because you do nothear noise like on iron sheets. Huts are very easy to make . Every village in Uganda has gothuts. BUT our village Nandahabi has gotthe most beautiful huts.

My baby boy is John Francis. He likes yellow bananasand apples. After taking his breakfast, he goes to play with a friend.

My little brother sleeps very late. I wake early, because I am great! I am the one who lets in the sun. "You're my morning star," says Ma. I wash myself, I don't need any help. I can cope with cold water and blue smelly soap. Ma reminds, "Don't forget teeth." I reply, "Never, not me!" After washing, I greet Grandpa and Auntie, and wish them a good day. Then I dress myself, "I'm big now Ma," I say. I can close my buttons and buckle my shoes. And I make sure little brother knows all the school news. In class I do my best in every way. I do all these good things every day. But the thing I like most, is to play and play!

Kobole lived in a smallvillage. One afternoon, Kobolewas out picking passionfruits. Somethingunusual happened. He saw colourful linescurved across the sky. He dropped all the fruitand ran home to tell thevillagers. He found everybodyalready standingoutside their homes.They were looking atthe sky. Kobole said, "It is abeautiful cloth hangingfrom the sky." Nenosaid, "No! I thinksomeone is pouringpaint from the sky." Some people agreedwith Kobole. Othersthought that Neno wasright. The two groupsargued. A man from a farawayvillage arrived and said,"You are all wrong." The people shouted,"Then what is it?" The stranger said, "It isthe rainbow. Have younever seen the rainbowbefore?" "What is a r-a-i-n-b-ow?" the villagers asked,looking at the stranger. Neno asked, "Is it ours?Can we keep it here?"But the man hadalready gone away.

Mother cow cow,I like you cow. Yesterday you gave me milk. My father buys meat every Saturday. Mummy has a nicebag, and I have verygood shoes.

This is Azizi.Azizi is my doll. I like Azizi because healways smiles. After I wake up I washmy face.Then I look for Azizi. When I find Azizi I brushhis hair. When I eat breakfast Ifeed Azizi. When I eat sweets Igive one to Azizi. But Azizi never eats hissweet.I wonder why! I walk around thecompound pickingflowers. I give a flower to Azizi.But he never says,"Thank you." I wash Azizi cleanbefore my motherbathes me. I dress Azizi in redbecause I love thecolour red. When I go to sleep, I layAzizi beside me.

I am a big boy now. I can climb up the steps. But I cannot climb down again. I can climb on a chair. But I cannot climb down again. I climb on to the chair, and then on the table! But I cannot climb down again. “Papa! Papa!” I shout.Papa laughs. “Sonu, learn to climb down!” he says. I am afraid. But I do not cry. Slowly, I get down from the table, and down from the chair. At last, I have learnt to climb down too!

This is Jaaka thefisherman fromNaminya. He fishes on the riverNile. He has a boat, fishingnet and a hook. He always wakes upvery early in themorning to catch theNile perch. At around 10am, he'sselling his catch in Jinjacentral market. Jaaka what happened?Was it a loss? He's sosad. "Today the situation isbad. The Nile breeze didnot permit me to fish.And one perch swamaway with my hook." "But I have hope thattomorrow will be good,because I've bought anew hook."

Once upon a time, therabbit and the monkeywere friends.One day, in a time offamine, the rabbitinvited his friend overto play. The rabbit said:Let'splay cooking eachother!The monkey asked:How can we do that? And the rabbitanswered: We have tomake a fire, and fill a pot withwater,and then put it onthe fire. I will get in first.When I beat on the lidof the pot, you open it.Then I will get out.And the monkeyagreed. So the rabbit got inthe pot first, and thewater started to warmup. The rabbit knocked, andthe monkey opened thelid. But when it was themonkey's turn, therabbit took a big stoneand put it on the lid ofthe pot and sat on topof it! When the water startedto boil, the monkeyknocked, but the rabbitdidn't open the lid. So the monkey died,and the rabbit ate hisbest friend!

I am a big boy now.I can draw and I can make things. I draw my mother, she sits still. I draw my sister, she does not sit still. I draw many things. But I am told not to draw on the wall. I can make things. I make a drawing of a cat, she is fat. I make a fish. It is small. I make paper boats, birds and planes. I make houses and trains. My sister makes a mess!I can make many things. But my sister cannot!

I can't find my bat, it's lost! It's not behind the door. It's not on the shelf. It's not under the bed either. It's not in the box. It's not in the loft. I can't find it anywhere!

She is called Ms Phone. Look at her! She has five cellphones.When she wakes up, she arranges her cellphones on the table. The yellow one is for communicating with family. The white one is for communicating with people at work. The red one is for communicating with those who owe her something. The pink one is for communicating with her best friends. The purple one is for communicating with people who need her help. Ms Phone likes people to be happy. She does not like fighting. She lets the children watch television at her shop. She visits the sick and the elderly in their homes. When she passes, there are shouts of "Ms Phone! Ms Phone!" Then she feels happy and says, "I am Ms Phone. Here, look at my phones!"That is Ms Phone and her five cellphones.

Namukuru and herbrother are readyfor school. Namukuru carriesher brother onher bicycle. Their friends cheerfor them as theyride into school. While they arein the classroom,a monkey arrivesoutside.The monkeyrides away onNamukuru's bicycle! The children chasethe monkey. The monkey leavesthe bicycle undera tree. The monkey swimsto an island in themiddle of the lake.He climbs high intoa tree. The monkey wavesgoodbye!The children wave back.Namukuru has herbicycle again.

This is Lekishon.Lekishon is callinghis dog. Lekishon and his dogare going to grazethe animals.The sun is hot. Lekishon and his dogare thirsty and hungry. They go to lookfor water. Lekishon loses trackof his cows. Lekishon starts to cry. He decides to gohome with his dog. The cows foundthe way home!Lekishon and his dogare very happy.

I can run with it. I can jump with it. I can dance with it. I can swim with it. I can skip with it. I can kick with it. I can escape with it. But I can never fly withit.

Prosy wanted a pussy cat. Prosy's family went to visit the pussy cats. Prosy wanted this cat.It was too big for her. Tim wanted this kitten.It was too small for him. Mum wanted this kitten.It was too quick for her. Everyone liked this kitten. They took the kitten. Everyone is happy with the new pussy cat.

I am a big girl. I go out of the house alone. It is so dark! Is someone there? Who is it? Oh, it is only the cat. I am not afraid. I can see a big dark thing outside! What is it? Oh, it is only the well. I am not afraid. And that sound! Creak creak creak! What is it? Only my sister drawing water from the well! I am not afraid. I hear footsteps! Who is it? Who is it? It is my mother. She has come home from the fields. I am a big girl now. I am not afraid of anything!

Once upon a time there lived a cat in our home. The rats were very terrible. Thewould play in the food. The cat ran after the rats and they hid in their holes. They also ate people's toes. They also ate our food. They ate our fish,sweet potatoes, and other things. One day, thecat ate some rats. All the rats hid in their cavesfor some short days. Then the rats came back. So we tried to spread poison, but the rats didn't stop.We also trapped the rats and we killed some rats. But they did not stop. We could not stop the rats. The rats were winners and wewere losers. This is the end of the story. Bye, cat and rats!

Once upon a time in a bigpalace, there lived a king andhisbeautiful daughter, theprincess. Elephant lived in a house onone side of the palace.Chameleonlived on the other side. At this time, there was a terribledrought across the land.The king had an idea and calledhis two neighbours to thepalace. The kind said to Elephant andChameleon, "I want you tostompon the ground with your feetuntil water comes out."The king promised the princessin marriage to the one whosucceeded. Chameleon had no hope sincehe was very small.Elephant was extremely happysince he was so big andpowerful.Elephant went to the field andstarted stomping on theground. A lot of dust came, but nowater.Elephant stomped on theground until water was almostcoming out, but he was tootired.He gave Chameleon a chanceto try. Chameleon started stomping onthe ground. After a short while,water came out.People could not believe theireyes! So the King gave the beautifulprincess to Chameleon.Elephant went home annoyed.

I am a big girl.I can help other people. After school, I like to feed my brother.He loves it. When I have a holiday,I help my mother to get ready to go to the office. In the evening, I help my father in his shop. But sometimes my mother says, “Please, do not help me!” And sometimes my father says,“Thank you, but please do not help me today.” Sometimes they both tell me to sit in one place.I like to read a book then! I like to help my grandmother.She tells me stories. My brother is still small.He cannot help at all. But I am a big girl. I can help other people.

Once upon a time, there was aweak man. This man was called Wamaŋe. Wamaŋe did not want to work atall. He was an idler. Wamaŋe had no good clothes butrugs. This man had no hut to live in. He slept outside at night andwatched the moon and stars asthey gave out light. One day, it rained heavily The night was very cold. Wamaŋe felt very cold.He started thinking of making a hutfor himself. He sung,"Tomorrow I will buildmyself a hut" ×4In the morning when the sunstarted shinning clearly, Wamaŋe became warm. Hechanged the song."It is hot why should I build a hut?"×4

Hare and Hyenawere friends.They decidedto farm potatoestogether. They worked hardon the farm. After work,Hare and Hyenaplayed together. But sometimesHyena chased Hare.Hare wouldrun away. One day,Hare asked,"If you are my friend,why do you chase me?" Then Hare asked,"But if you arenot my friend,why do we workand play together?" A friend is someonewho is always a friend.

Eyes are red. Why, oh why? Nose just runs. Wipe it dry. Cheeks feel hot. Touch me not! Throat is sore. No water nearby! Mouth goes round. Why, oh why? Air all gone. Why, oh why? Now, what shall we do? Use the thread. Tie the balloon. You blow the balloon. Your turn now.

Dinah likes a purpledress. My aunt likes an orangedress.Dad bought it for her. Jjajja likes a blue dress. Dan likes a red van The baby likes a yellow chair. Customers like red tomatoes. School children like blue tops forgames. My sister likes a yellowblouse. Jane likes a pink dress. My neighbor likes a yellow cottage.It looks nice. Insects like green places. My friend and I like green apple.

Thuli has short hair. Anna has long hair. Cathy has the longesthair. Zama has plaited herhair. Baba has a beard. Zanele has combed herhair. Thabo has cut his hair. Themba has shaved hishair.

Zama is getting ready for school. Dad is cooking porridge for breakfast. "Mom makes the best porridge!" says Zama. Porridge gives Zama energy for school. The porridge is ready. Dad pours the milk, with love. "Dad, I think this porridge needs more sugar," says Zama. "Mom's porridge tastes much better than Dad's porridge," thinks Zama. "Dad, please can I have more sugar?" asks Zama. Dad gives Zama more sugar. "Wu! Dad! You put salt on my porridge!" "Dad, when will Mom be home?" asks Zama.

I love to read Who can I read for? The baby is sleeping Who can I read for? Mom and grandmotherare cooking Who can I read for? Father and grandfatherare fixing the car Who can I read for?I will sit and read formyself

With my nose... ...I smell dirty socks. ...I smell beautifulflowers. With my eyes... ...I see a balloonblowing away in thewind. ...I see a happy cat. With my mouth... ...I taste the salty sea. ...I taste a juicy sweetorange. With my hand... ...I take your hand.

I wake up at night feeling thirsty. I want to get some water. I start looking for my slippers under the bed. Oh my God! There is a tiger under my bed. Now what should I do? Should I call Ma? What if the tiger roars? Should I just go back to sleep? But I am not sleepy any more. Then someone turns on the light. Ma is standing at the door. “What happened dear?Did you call me?” asks Ma. I point towards the tiger. Ma bends and pulls the tiger out from under the bed! Hey, this is no tiger. This is my thick yellow and black sweater. Its buttons shine like a tiger's eyes. I got scared for nothing!Ma gets me some water. Now I will sleep. And dream about real tigers in a jungle!

For a long time, Rabbitand Monkey were greatfriends. However, Rabbit wasjealous of Monkeybecause of his long tail.One day they went for awalk. They went to the shamba and ate maize. Rabbit tricked Monkeyto be trapped by thefarmer. Clever rabbit shouted,"Robbers! Robbers!"And ran away. The monkey could notrun fast because of hislong tail. The farmers shouted:Stop! Stop! They caught him andstarted beating him. The monkey revealedhow his friend Rabbitinvited him to theshamba. But the owners did notwant to listen."We will cut off yourtail," they said. Rabbit took Monkey'stail secretly and cookedit.Then he invited theMonkey for the meal. After the meal, themonkey said, "Themeat was delicious." Rabbit smiled and said,"It was your tail," andran away.And from then on theybecame enemies!

I have a friend. She lives in my house. When I am happy, so is she. When I cry, she cries too. But I cannot hear her voice. My friend lives inside the mirror. “Come out,” I tell her, “we will play.” She does not come out. I am not happy. I go to sleep. She comes out of the mirror in my sleep! And we have fun. We play, we run, we shout and scream together. When I talk to her, she also talks to me. In the morning, my friend will go back into the mirror. But I don't mind at all. We will play again in my dreams!

Clouds can bring rain.I like clouds. Clouds can bring snow.I like clouds. Clouds can hide thesun.I like clouds. Clouds can hide thestars.I like clouds.

Skipping Running Kicking the ball Jumping

I wake up and make fire. I boil some water. I chop the firewood. I stir the pot. I sweep the floor. I wash the dishes. Why do I work so hard...... when my brother is busy playing?

Grandma greets me We ran to look at grandma's cow. I caught up with her. I ran away from her. Grandma got very tired.

If I were a bank manager, Iwould be giving money toeverybody. If I were a vehicle, I wouldtransport people free of charge. If I were a hunter, I would hunt for animals which have no hair. If I were a rat , I would grow fatand chase the cat. If I were a baby, I would cry foronly expensive things. If I were a cat, I would be eating rats to grow fatter. If I were a hen, I would be layinggolden eggs to people. If I were a beggar, I would notaccept coins. If I were a doctor, I would treatpeople with slaps. If I were a priest, I would be taking all people to heaven. If I were a mosquito, I would be sleeping under a mosquito net.

Hamisi needs a newschool uniform. His dadtakes him to themarket. Hamisi sees a boywearing a beautifulshirt. "That is a veryfine shirt," thinksHamisi. "I wish I had a shirt likethat boy," says Hamisi. "Look, she is sellingthose special shirts,"says Hamisi. "Dad,please buy one for me,"he asks. "Hamisi, I have to buyyour uniform," saysdad. "I do not have enoughmoney for that shirt,"says dad. Hamisi's dad pays forthe uniform. He issurprised when he getsthe change. There isenough money left overto buy a shirt! It is Hamisi's lucky day!Which shirt will hechoose?

"You are such a boring, ordinary circle," said Spike to Spot, as he bit into the cake. "Look at me. I'm strong, sharp and poky. I can make you cry!" "Eeeeeee! Spikes!" shrieked Spot."Yes, aren't I scary?" said Spike."Not you! Look there. S... S... Spikier... stronger... sharper... pokier... teeth... shark swimming this way!" "Shark?" yelped Spike, looking out into the sea.Spot quickly pulled out her red gel tube."Hee hee. Boring spots coming up," sniggered Spot. "Huh? Where's the shark?" said Spike. Spike picked up his cake to take another bite."Eeeeeee! Spots!" he shrieked."Yes, aren't they boring? Probably just harmless chicken pox spots," said Spot. "Boring! Harmless! What's harmless about spots? Blech!" screamed Spike. "Spots are scary!"

Oscar has a problemwith his eyes.He cannot see any fish. But he will not eat hiscarrots. Johnnie the seahorsesays, "Oscar, eat yourcarrots!" But Oscar does not likethe taste of carrots. "Carrots will help you tosee better," saysJohnnie. Oscar goes to thedoctor.Oscar and Johnnie waitfor Dr Shakes. Dr Shakes says,"Glasses will help youto see better." Oscar does not want towear glasses. But the glasses helpOscar see the fishes.Now he eats his carrotswith fish!

Bathtime is Jack'sfavourite part ofthe day.'I'll be back in afew moments,'says his mom. 'Make sure to cleanbehind your ears.' There's a SWOOSH.And a swish of a tail. And then... Jack's bathtub safari begins! Look at what's coming! There's a twistand a turn...Something'sgrowing...It's a... Tooot! There's a RUMBLE!It's going upUPUP... And... SPLASH! There's a SPLOSH.Something bubbles.It's time to... AAAAAAH.....But something's lurking in the background.... ROAR! 'Time to get out. I hopeyou're clean andready for bed.'

I Am Going To Explore The World. Across the Rivers Past the Cities Through The Forests Over The Hills It Is A Beautiful World! Who Made It? God Knows! Or... Maybe Not.

Ball. My ball. My red ball. My big red ball. I kick. I kick my ball. I kick my red ball. I kick my red ball hard! Where? Where is my ball? Where is my ball now? Where is my red ballnow? It is up. It is high up. It is high up in the sky. It is high up in the sky.It is over the moon.It is gone!

A walk in Zanzibar,what do you see?Shops selling sweets,in very narrow streets. A swim in Zanzibar,what do you see?Changu, Kibua, Tasi,Pono, Jodari na Kambisi. A drive in Zanzibar,what do you see?Animals in a jungle,watching at an angle A dance in Zanzibar,what do you see?Swahili, English and Arab,all dancing Taarab. A drink in Zanzibar,what do you see?miwa, madafu juicy,coffee and tea are spicy. A trip to Zanzibar,do you wish to go back?

Once there lived a granny, mamma, a kid. Then a monkey sneaked through the window and ate up the fruits. The cat ate up the fruits in the garden. That's all.

A walk in kampala,what do you see?Shops selling clothes,in very congested streets. A shower in Nakivuubo,what do you see?owino market, taxi park, play ground,petrol station, mukwano arcade. A drive in kampala,what do you see?very tall buildings, very many cars of differenttypes. Languages in kampala,what do you hear?Luganda, Swahili, English and Lunyankole,all are being spoken. A breakfast in Kampala,what do you see?menvu, black tea, milk tea and Bushera. A trip to kampala,do you wish to go back?

My dinosaur and I look at my birds in the sky. My birds and I meet Chimpanzee in the tree. My chimpanzee and I play with my giraffes on the hill. My giraffes and I make monkey balls from clay. My monkey and I eat bananas with Gorilla every day. My gorilla and monkey fear Tortoise in every way. Tortoise and I go home very slowly with Snake. Snake and I love to hiss and sing songs by the lake. My entire family and I live together in great happiness!

Sundya is a pupil at Buwesaprimary school. Every day he goes to school andevery one likes him at school butnever brushes his teeth. He keeps laughing and smiling evenwhen the other pupils are not. He shares a desk with other fourpupils but they dislike and alwaysshout at him. At play time, all his friends leavehim alone. Sundya is now worried because noone wants to be near him though heperforms well in class. The teacher then advices Sundya toclean his teeth and mouth everyday. Next day he comes back at schoolwith the teeth so white and themouth clean.Now every one is back to him likebefore.

All of us went to the funfair. Father bought brotherfancy glasses.Mother bought me abright blue cap.The baby got sugarcandy. On the way home, avery strong wind came.It blew my cap away. My cap got stuck on abranch of a big old tree. I cried a lot.And I did not eat mydinner. Later that night, themoon came up. Itlooked at my cap in thebig old tree. The moon tried on mycap. It smiled happily.I had to smile too. After school the nextday, my mother gaveme a shiny new redcap."The moon sent it," shesaid. That night, both themoon and I wore ourcaps and smiled.We were happy. Do you think the sunneeds a hat? Guess which cap I amwearing today!

In a village there was adisagreement among peopleof different occupations.Everyone thought their workwas the most important! The teacher said that he hadthe most important occupation."Without teachers you couldnot go to school and learn." The builder said that he hadthe most important occupation."Without builders you wouldnot have schools to learn inor houses to sleep in." The carpenter said that he hadthe most important occupation."Without carpenters you wouldhave no furniture for yourhouses and schools." The doctor claimed that he hadthe most important occupation."Without doctors and nursesyou could get sick and die." The farmer said that she hadthe most important occupation."Without farmers you wouldyou would not have foodto eat." The student argued thatstudents had the mostimportant work."Without students, therewould be no teachers,builders, doctors, farmers,or carpenters." Eventually everyone agreedthat all the occupations areimportant.We need teachers, builders,doctors, farmers, andcarpenters.But everyone has to be astudent first!

Clouds are a big sign of rain. it is very hot today.Why? Clouds can hide the sun.I like clouds so much . is it raining out side ?"Asked teacher Nabune" is it windy ? Tell me more about weather........

This is Matende. Matende cried all the time. When his mother fed him, Matende cried. When Matende was put down to rest, he still cried. When his mother changed his nappies, Matende continued to cry. When his mother carried him on her shoulder, Matende cried more. When he fell asleep, Matende looked like he would start to cry again. Matende's mother looked at her son.She did not know what was wrong with him.

There was a man who sold oilthat he made in his house. And in that house therewere rats. Lots of rats! Every day the rats lookedat the oil and said, "Howcan we get that oil?" The rats tried to put theirmouths into the bottles. But thespaces in the bottles were toosmall. The rats tried to tip over the bottles. But the oil would not flow out. The rats had a meeting todiscuss the problem. After awhile, one rat said, "Let's putour tails into the bottles. Thenwe can lick the oil off our tails." And that's exactly what the rats did. They put their tails into the bottles,and then licked the oil off each other's tails. The rats did this until theyhad licked up all the oil. The man of the house sawthat all his oil was gone! And that was the end of it.

Once upon a time there was a little elephant called Percy, who used to walk carelessly.He used to step on the ants that lived nearby and injure them endlessly. One-day ants decided to teach him a lesson. They all tickled Percy when he was taking a bath. They tickled Percy when he was eating food. They tickled Percy when he was taking a nap. They tickled and tickled Percy till he said sorry. Percy learned his lesson and never stepped on ants ever again.

I am Subaami. This is my mother- Swetha.My father's name is Sujan. My brother's name is Shreyas.All our names begin with S!Shreyas and I, made the picture on the wall. Today Amma has worn a saree that is just the colour of the sun in the picture.It looks so pretty with orange and red and yellow. Amma goes to office. She reads a lot. She makes very nice food.Hmmmmm...smells so good!I think she is making sweet corn curry. We have a pet cat.Her name also begins with S- Sweety. My grandma lives with us.She tells me stories, I read my story books to her.And her name? Sundaravalli. And S...yes, we are one sweet happy family!

Once there was a very hungry crocodile. He searched for food slowly and quietly. And then... POW!!! The crocodile strikes! After that he is no longer hungry, and he is happy. Until he gets hungry again.

Young children like toplay with Toys. I like skipping and swinging. Connie likes hide andseek. Some boys playfootball. Sam likes running. Some girls play net ball. Elsie likes to jump like a frog. Girls play with water. Nelly likes sliding. Children like to play wedding games. Keisha and Dona like toplay with dolls. What about you?

Heeeee! There is abeautiful cow at home. It has no tail and onlyone horn.It looks so beautiful. It is fat, and has a bigstomach. It is the strongest cow. Its shepherd loves thiscow very much.He has taught this cowto listen only to hisvoice. When the herd go tothe fields to graze, thiscow eats alone. This cow is a greatfighter, so the othercows leave it alone. People know this cow.They are afraid of it,because it can fightwith its one horn.If you met such a cow,what would you do?

This is Agnes. She is my teacher. Agnes uses crutches to walk. This is Metobo. He is my favourite radio DJ. Metobo has problems with his eyes. This is Moraa, my neighbour. Moraa is a farmer. Moraa cannot hear. She speaks using Sign Language. This is Osero. He is the best soccer player at my school. Osero has no hands. But he scores many goals for our team!

This is Preetha Aunty. She teaches us Hindi.We began with the letters, now we have finished up till 'dda'. Preeta aunty tells us one or two words with the letters.Ka se Kamal, Ka se kalam, Ka se Kutta.Aunty drew the lotus and the pen. But she did not know how to draw the dog.So I drew it for her! It is my birthday, I am very happy.I got chocolates for all my friends and teachers. I gave a chocolate to Preetha Aunty.She told me "Dhanyawaad"I also said Dhanyawaad because I did not know how to say" Welcome" in Hindi.Do you?

Near my house is a really big tree, I climb on it when I am free.I just go up and up to the top, When I reach I just hop.As soon as I climb, my mother says stop, Its time for lunch, now you hop.No mom no! it is time to shop!Then again in the market I shall climb and hop!!!!No No No!! No one is going to shop,Come on here, or I will pop!!!!

There was a man with his onedog. He loved his dog so much. It was hard working and it used to go to the market to buy meat. fetching water from the well. Guarding every thing at home. One day the man thanked his dog in a specialway for being faithful. The dog became so happy andit continued working hard.

I have a kite which is strong and has enough might,When I sail it up in the air it starts to fight with the other kites.My kite is big, cartoony and wide,When it wanders a bit, my father sets it right!When it rains at night,I think about if I could fly my kite!

Flamingoes Vulture Sunbird Hornbill Indian Roller Bulbul Weaver Bird Sparrow

I am smelly, I am dirty!I never feel guilty!I cause a lot of pain and acid rain,stopping me you will have a strain!I cause malaria in your area,Causing dengue is fun because it makes you run!Sea animals die and soon you will cry,Save your planet, save your earth,or more diseases soon will take birth

Do not waste food, please be humble,Look at the beggar children, with no food, their tummy must rumble!The children on the street, dream about the food that you do not eat.The food that you throw away, could give someone a happiness ray!

Aunt Merane gave some money toJoe. Go to the shop. Buy sugarand bread. Joe picked an old carTyre.He ran fast with to theshop. Before reaching theshop,he saw the ball.He forgot the tyre.He picked the ball andkicked it. He saw a flying bird.He wanted to catch it. He saw the cows.He stopped and startedsinging to them. "Where is Joe? AskedJessica""He is just late but he iscoming." Aunt Meranesaid. Uncle Don sat withbaby Tara.He wanted to havebreakfast before goingfor work. Joe saw a puppy. He ranwith it around thefields. He got tired.He sat down andchecked his pocket.The money was notthere. He ran home withoutsugar and bread. "Joe, Where is sugar and bread?Where is the money?''Asked Aunt Merane. Am very sorry Aunt Merane.I played too much and lost the money.

Fruits, fruits, fruits. Fruit is sweet to eat. People eat differenttypes of fruits. One may eat mangoes, another may eat pineapples. We also enjoy oranges. Children enjoy apples. Birds enjoy corn. Oh fruits are good forhealth.People, animals andbirds like fruits somuch.

Dinner time is fun for Roma. She does many things on her plate Ma gives her rice. Roma makes a hill from it. White hill with steam coming from the top. Roma pours dal on her rice. She thinks it makes a small yellow lake. She laughs when she dips a spoon in her yellow lake There is a green forest on her plate. There are leaves. Some are big and some are small. She likes some. But she does not like some. She likes a vegetable that looks like a tree. It has a round top like a mango tree. The 'tree vegetable' also has a stock. It is almost white in colour Roma thinks it looks like a happy tree. Do you know what is Roma's happy tree? We call it cauliflower. Roma likes it very much. I love it too. What about you?

Bittu and Kittu are friends. Bittu called Kittu to play. Kittu ran. Bittu also ran with her. Kittu stopped. She took something from her pocket. Bittu saw her holding it near her mouth. She started blowing it. It was a small ball. The ball was pink. It was becoming big. Bittu started laughing. Kittu's cheeks puffed up. She was blowing. The ball was becoming bigger. It looked like a balloon. It looked like a big balloon. Balloon grew very big. Then it popped. Kittu laughed. Bittu also laughed. Blowing balloons was fun.

Ant looked at the littleplants and pebblesaround him. "I am big!"he said. "No, Ant. You are notbig," said Squirrel. "I ambig!" "No, Squirrel. You arenot big," said Cat. "I ambig!" "No, Cat. You are notbig," said Hyena, "I ambig!" "No, Hyena. You are notbig," said Rhinoceros, "Iam big!" "No, Rhinoceros. Youare not big," saidElephant, "I am big!" Then Elephant lookedup at the sky. The skywas full of stars. Thesky was big and wideforever in everydirection. "No, I am notbig, either! All of us aresmall!"

Once upon a time there lived a cat and a rat. The cat ranafter the rat. The rat hid under the stone. The cat looked for the rat and the cat saw a dog! The dogran after the cat. The cat hid in the bush. The dog looked for the cat and the dog saw a big, big lion.The lion chased the dog. The dog ran in the bush. The lion looked for the dog. Then the lion saw a big toughelephant. The elephant chased the lion. The lion ran into thebush. The end of the story

Crickets chirp. Mice squeak. Snakes hiss. Dogs bark. Goats bleat. Cows moo. Lions roar... ...and snails make nosound at all. Babies babble... ...and children talk.

This is Ramu. He was eating some sweets and few pieces fell down. After sometime he saw a big black line. He goes closer to see what it was and finds they were ants coming in a line to eat the sweet. Each ant carries a piece of sweet on its back. They all stuck together to carry the sweet. Ramu once again saw the ants going back home in a line. The ants had a big feast that night. See how the ants shared their food with each other.Do you also share your food with others?

Mama is filling a redbucket. Abongile is playing witha red truck. Deon is holding redflowers. Aunty is wearing a redjersey. There is a red sunabove Grandpa. There is a red scooterparked in the street. A red lizard is onBabalwa's lap. A red fire engine is atthe fire station. Here is Sibahle wearinga red top. She is trying on redboots. They don't fit!

Prakruti loved reading stories with Ajji, while Golu, their cat, slept at their feet. "Ajji, tell me a story about me!" she squealed. So Ajji began, "Prakruti or Prakriti means Nature"."Nature? What does that mean?", asked Prakruti."Look outside", said Ajji. Prakruti is the leaves on the ground,the birds on the trees. Prakruti is the rolling hillsand the breeze.. Prakruti is the rain, the thunderand cold.. Prakruti is the summer, yellowand gold.. Prakruti is the mango tree in ourcourtyard.. Prakruti is the flower in ourfrontyard.. Prakruti is the snow on themountain tops .. Prakruti is the desert wheresand is lots.. Prakruti is a sapling basking in thesunlight.. Prakruti is the silver lining in themoonlight.. Prakruti is the nature within ushelpful, loving and full of joy.. "And this is the story about Prakruti, I hope you enjoy",ended Ajji."Oh! I love this story Ajji. I love this story about me very much!"

We are in Cape Town onholiday. We are excitedbecause Mom and Dadare taking us to thepark next to the sea. Look at the tall slide.Am I brave enough toclimb up and slidedown? My sister and I want toplay on the see saw. Iwonder which one of usis heaviest? Mom and Dad need topush us when we wantto swing. I am going totry to swing thehighest. Look at these whitehorses. They arestatues. We read the sign whichshows us what fun wecan have with thehorses. We visit the lighthouse.Mom and Dad say it isvery old. Lighthouses areimportant at night andin the fog. They alertships to the rocks in thesea. We have had a happytime at the park, butnow it is home time. Weare going to catch abus. Thank you Mom andDad for our treat. Weare tired but veryhappy!

Kabali and Kateera are friends. Kabali has a cat. Kateera has a rabbit. Kabali plays with his cat every day. Kateera feeds his rabbit twice a day. Kateera's rabbit produced six babies. Two rabbits were black.Two rabbits were brown. Two rabbits were white. Kabali's cat produced three babies. One kitten was male. Twokittens were female. Kateera sold three of the baby rabbits. He used the money tobuy books and pencils to use at school. Kabali did not sell any kittens. The people in the village didnot want cats.

My mother planted.She planted a smallgarden.She planted a smallgarden of peas. My father planted.He planted a smallgarden.He planted a smallgarden of flowers. My mother weeded inboth gardens. My father watered inboth gardens. My parents and Iworked in the smallgardens.My sister and Iharvested the flowersand peas. The small garden ofpeas yielded sacks ofpeas.The small garden offlowers yielded sacks offlowers. My mother planted.She planted a largegarden.The large garden sheplanted was of peas. My father planted.He planted a largegarden.The large garden heplanted was of flowers.

Esther is a good girl. She has manyfriends from school and aroundhome. When Esther goes to play withfriends, she picks Mummy's sweetsand gives to friends. She picks thesweets when Mummy does notknow. Mummy sees the sweets are fewbut keeps quiet. Esther's friendscome home while shouting:"Esther give us more sweets". That iswhen Mummy knows that Esthertakes her sweets. At night Mummy and Daddy call Esther. They ask Esther whyshe takes the sweets without requesting. Esther says that sheis sorry. Daddy and Mummy tell Esthernever again to pick anythingwithout permission.But Esther was encouraged toshare with friends the things thatshe has been given.Esther is now a good girl.She does not pick Mummy'ssweets.Mummy and Daddy love Esther.

There are many ways totravel. Which will Ichoose? Should I use a plane? Planes fly very high. Iam afraid of flying! Perhaps I should use ahelcopter? But helicopters andplanes are the same! Should I perhaps use atrain? But the train station isvery far. Or, perhaps, I shoulduse a bus? Our village has only onebus! Perhaps I will use a lorryto travel. But lorries are used forcarrying heavy luggage. Should I use a bicycle totravel? But will my father giveme his bicycle? Perhaps I will try to usea boat? But I do not trust boatsvery much! Aah! I know how I willtravel! I will use atractor.

hopeis peanut butterspread thinly between two slicesof government issue breadjust enough to awakena hunger forfullness

Timmi wanted a dog her whole life. She dreamt that she had a dog of her own. Next day, she got a dog of her own. She taught her dog how to stand. She taught her dog how to lift a paw. She taught it how to think. She taught it how to be funny. She taught it how to be scary. she taught it how to touch it's nose. At the end, Timmi's dream had come true.

Ben and Thabo are two hungry boys. Granny is making ten cupcakes. She puts them on a plate. Ben takes one cupcake. Thabo takes two cupcakes. Ben takes four cupcakes. Thabo takes two cupcakes. How many cupcakes did Ben eat?How many cupcakes did Thabo eat?How many cupcakes are left for granny?

Look at our animals we keep athome. The cow gives us milk. The rabbits and cats are veryfriendly to human beings . The horse says, "Neigh." The cows and goats are paid asbride price in Uganda. The chicken says, "Cluck." The dog is a source of securityat our homes. The farmer looks after them somuch .

I like to hide dadhi's spectacles. When she finds it, I end up get scoldings. Sometimes she is angry with me. Sometimes she is not. When dadhi loses her spectacles, I help her find it. And I try to knit her a sweater. To end her day I sing her a song. To end her day I sing her a song.

### BeforeDear Mr. Fish,If you went to the clouds for vaction,come back quick.if you are sleeping for extra hours,WAKE UP!You have been sleeping for exactly 2 days and 2 hours,which makes you very fishy### AfterSorry, I ran out of fish food.

Here are two animals talking about. Who is the fastest animal in the forest? So they kept a race for all the animals that wanted to participate. The race began and the participants Lui the lion, Cheek the cheetah, Srap the snake, Mew the cat and Rocky the dog etc participated. The winner was Cheek the cheetah by 5.9 secs. Lui was 6.0, Srap was 9.9 secs, Mew was 6.7 secs, Rocky was 6.1 secs and Harry was 6.0 secs. So we know that the cheetah is the fastest animal.

The day that we've been talkingabout has come. We are goingto play soccer. Chiefs versusAces.Come and watch!Come with your vuvuzela! Wonderful Chiefs, the cup mustcome to sleep at home.I want us to work together as ateam in order to defeat Aces.We must attack wisely, becareful, and pass to each other. Pass the ball, pass it, Portia,Modise!Defend, defend, Jomo!There it is, there it is, let it go tothe goals! You played wonderfully, mybeautiful Chiefs!You attacked wisely, you werecareful, and you shared the ball.You played as a real team! 'High Five! Give yourselves ahand!' says the coach. Oh! We are tired, but it wasgood to prepare ourselves.When is the match, Coach? The day came that we werewaiting for. The coach broughtus the kit.Halala Chiefs, halala!It's going to be a good game.The cup is ours! Our kit is so beautiful! Thankyou, coach! You are a wonderfulcoach!

I can do this.I can hop. I can do this.I can jump. I can do this.I can dance. I can do this.I can build. I can do this.I can wink. I can do this.I can sing. I can do this.I can play. I can do this.I can read.

Once upon a time, here was a magical jungle in which all the animals could talk and sing, but one an elephant named 'JUMBO' could not do those things. So he felt very sad. One day , there was a running race in the zoo , for the animals. The elephant came very well trained but the others started telling him a slow poke but Jumbo did not lose hope. At the end, Jumbo came out victorious .Moral: Never judge someone.

Latika , Vidvath and Shubhi were very excited to know that they would go to Gudi Gudi on a vacation. Shubhi and Latika had brought some fruits , but feared that the ants will eat them. Vidvath brought his paratha along as well. Everyone happily went to the station along with Mummy and Papa. The porter took the luggage along Vidvath , Latika and Shubhi sat on their seats. They had the vegetables and fruits as well which they had brought. Everybody had a great lunch. The train was going over the bridge. Vidvath was very happy to see the water below in the river. Once Shubhi , Latika and Vidvath reached the train station , they went further to the mountains in a bus.

Little Golu was roaming in a jungle with a magic torch in his hand. Golu always wanted to become a detective. Suddenly he saw red colored umbrellas in the jungle. They were very big in size. Golu went near the red umbrellas. And look what he found with his magic torch?A cute little girl. She was lost in the jungle while playing. So she was very sad. Golu promised her to take her back home. And they became good friends

I am Ana Maria Namata My dad is Mr. Agaba Ali. My mum is AnangaAsha. She cares andloves so much. Dad wants apples and ants. Apples and ants are sweet. Angela and Agatha play with toy cats and rabbits. Male is a tall man. Apples are packed in a basket. Namata, Cathy, Sara,Ali and Aba sattogether. Mummy taught mewords with sound Aa Namagala is a prayerfulgirl. Asaba and Akello learnt about atrain. Sound Aaa i will never forget you.

A crocodile has bigteeth. A lion has big teeth aswell. A cow has strong teeth. Birds do not have teeth. Rats have big frontteeth. Sharks have sharpteeth. I used to have a lot ofteeth. But now I don't havemany.

Inyang was a herd's boy. One day... ...he was veryhungry He got a bird... ...and sent it home. The bird flew... ...and landed on the hut. People heard the bird. Food was cooked. They took food... ... found him under the tree. The cows had gone. They fed him. His father went for the cows. Inyang ate enough. Inyang and the cows were taken home. The bird had saved Inyang!!

Small kitten was playing in the garden. She saw a fruit on the tree and wanted to eat it. She was very small to climb the tree. But she had lot of courage and decided to climb the tree. With lot of effort, it finally climbed and tree and ate the fruit. Suddenly, it started raining and the kitten was frightened. It did not know how to come down. One boy saw the kitten and came to catch it. He brought a ladder to use for climbing the tree. Kitten called her monkey friend for help. The monkey took the kitten on its back and jumped from the tree and safely rescued the brave kitten.

One Day man went to forest and to see the forest, Practice the music over there. He found the some good decent place over there and found one interesting Big Mushroom over there. He started sitting over the Mushroom and practicing over there for a while. After a few days of Practicing the Birds and Animals are started listening to music of him.

Tingi lived with his grandmother. He used to look after the cows with her. One day the soldiers came. They took the cows away. Tingi and his grandmother ran away and hid. They hid in the bush until night. Then the soldiers came back. Grandmother hid Tingi under the leaves. One of the soldiers put his foot right on him, but he kept quiet. When it was safe, Tingi and his grandmother came out. They crept home very quietly.

A group of children were living in a untidy place and they wanted to improve the living condition. They wanted to clean their surroundings and started to clean that place , at that time a dog came and started barking on them. But the children din't want to leave and continued cleaning for better health and improve their skills in cleaning and decorating. Moral of the story is: Children are thoughtful on living conditions and having skills of cleaning and decorating

Where are you going my little goat? I am going to market to buy a new coat. A coat for a goat? Can a goat have a coat? People will laugh at a goat with a coat!

On Wednesday morning, i went to my school. I greeted my teacher. The teacher asked me the question on Maths. I told that i don't know teacher. The cat torn my testpaper and threw it.The teacher said i will beat you. Write the answer and bring it tomorrow.

Once upon a time, there was arooster and a hare.They were very good friends. One night, Hare visited Roosterand his family at home.They enjoyed supper together. Then came the time to go tobed.Hare saw that as Rooster andhis family slept, their headswere hidden. Hare saw that Rooster and hisfamily slept very well.He was not able to sleep thewhole night. In the morning, Hare wanted toknow Rooster's secret."Where do you put your headsat night?" he asked. Rooster decided to play a jokeon Hare.He said, "My friend, we birdshave a secret for going to sleep.At bedtime, we chop off ourheads. Without heads, we sleepvery well." "Then in the morning, we putour heads back on," explainedRooster. Hare went home and told hisfamily the secret of thechickens.The Hare family decided to try itthemselves!What do you think happened?

A Chameleon is color changing animal and it is small in size.On day, Chameleon sleeping on a tree and from the other side a snake came on the same tree.Chameleon got scared on started changing its color, It has changed color to brown and started running away from snake. The snake started following the chameleon & Chameleon started moving from tree to sand and in between stones to escape from snake by changing color.Now after escaping from snake, Chameleon was very tired and he wants to drink water and take rest in some safe place. On the way to Pond, Chameleon saw crocodiles and was scared to go near. Then he changed color and went slowly near pond to drink water. After drinking water chameleon went to bushes and changed color of bushes and finally relaxed there.

Dad loves porridge. I love cornflakes. Dad loves coffee. I love milk. Dad loves apples. I love oranges. Dad loves bread.I love toasted bread. We both love fat cakes(vetkoek).

One boy is going back home from the school, there is a dog feeling hungry near to his place.That boy passing in front of that dog, then the dog saw his books which are in his hand.Dog grabbed the book with her mouth and boy was fearful and he left his book there and run away.

I love my teacher. She is beautiful. She isa good teacher. She iskind and patient. She has braided herhair very nicely today. She has decorated herhair with colourfulbeads. Her beads are green,white, red, and yellow. Mom, please would youbraid my hair like myteacher's? When I am older I willalso put beads in myhair. I will grow up to be justlike my teacher!

Once up on a time there was a king who like music a lot. He loves to play music in his garden. Whenever he plays music all the birds, small creatures and animals will listen to his music and dances well. That's how he enjoy his day to day life. He got sick and died . After so many years he born as a common man and he loves music in this life as well. He will daily go to forest to get food, and while going to forest he plays with guitar and enjoys through out the way and make birds and animals to dance for his music. His family members loves his music a ton and encourages him to participate in many music competitions. Once he got a chance to participate in the music competition and he did participation and got a wonderful prize for his music.

A mother went to attend to her child who fell in the bath room. A monkey came into the kitchen. It ate some mangoes. When the mother returned she noticed some mangoes are missing. She asked her child, "did you eat the mangoes? " . She ran out and saw the monkey. Then she realized it is not her child who ate, it is the monkey.

In a zoo, there were different animals and lion was the head of all the animals. The Lion said, I can do many things than others. Then all animals got angry and called up for a running race to see who is fastest and fit to be a king. Curator also came as participant and told he can run faster than other animals. Next day they kept a running race and animals started to run towards winning post. The first animal which reached winning post is Rhino, which is fit to be a king of zoo.

one day when aunty was cooking , monkey came into the kitchen through the window and wanted to eat the mangoes kept in the kitchen. And the monkey pushed all the vessels in the kitchen and scared the aunty. And the child was crying hearing loud noises and aunty immediately went and helped the crying child, by then monkey ate the mangoes and left the kitchen happily.Aunty cleaned the kitchen and put the child to sleep and kept a stick near the kitchen window so that money doesn't come again.

One day monkey came to my home, disturbed the things and ate all the eatables, I am not there in home at that time, once I reached I sent out the monkey back.

There is a Honey Bee. One day it is flying in the sky and found some plants around. Bee collected the honey from different flowers. It keeps flying and collected more honey. Group of Bees also followed her and did the same thing. Finally we get the honey from Bees.

Ben keeps animals. This is a cow. This is a goat. This is a horse. This is a pig. This is a hen. This is a dog. The farmer is carryingmilk.

There was a small monkey in a village. He was very mischievous and used to trouble the villagers. One day he was very hungry and had nothing to eat. So he decided to enter a house and get food from there. He saw a window open in a kitchen and went inside. The women in the house got scared seeing the monkey and ran away. He broke all the food boxes and ate it all. After eating the food he ran away.

Once upon a time there was a Lion called Ramu. He had blue eyes. He lived in a forest called Chris. In the forest there lived many animals like the deer, zebra, mokey, tiger, fox, cheetah, giraffe and snake. Hoggy, the tiger was his best friend. One day Ramu and Hoggy went to the river to drink water. In the river there were many fish. The fish asked Ramu "what are you doing here?". Ramu replied " I came to drink water". Ramu and Hoggy drank the water and went home.

One day, a goat went out in the bush, and wandered aroundhappily. But then she got lost! Suddenly, she met a wolf! The wolf came up to her, and helooked very hungry. The goat said: Mr. Wolf, I know you want to eat me. But Iwould like to die happy! The wolf asked thegoat: What do youmean? Die happy?How? The goat answered: If Ihave to die, I would liketo die dancing! Then the wolf took hisguitar. He sat down andstarted playing it. And the goat starteddancing, though shewas still a little bitworried. Near that place, there were dogs. They came to see whatwas happening. Now that wolf was afraid of dogs. So he turned and ranaway! And the goat kept ondancing, because nowshe was free from thewolf!

One day teacher was absent. All the naughty students were playing in the class. One of the student writing on the board and he said all the students come here. That boy teaching a lesson and all the students enjoying the day.

What I do on the day of Diwali:Hurrraayy its holiday...I'll wake up early in the morning to take head bath and wear new clothes.I do Lakshmi Pooja along with my mother and have sweets and savouries.Evening I'll help my family members in lightning diyas and decorate around my house.Next I'll fire all my crackers along with my siblings.Once I am done with my crackers I'll go to my friend's/neighbor's house and again have fun there too.

Manya was getting ready for a party. But she did'nt know what to wear. She tried every t-shirt and pant she had. She still could not find the perfect dress. She tried her new frock and her t-shirt. She felt it was not nice. She tried on a t-shirt and a pant. They were too loose. She tried on her t-shirt with a poncho tied around her hip. Still not perfect. She took a green t-shirt and a pant. But they were too tight. She tried on her frock. But it was too long. Manya was tired. She did'nt know what to wear. She suddenly stared out of her window, her eyes falling in her chudidhar. At first , she did'nt think about the dress. She wore the dress to the party. Manya had finally found the perfect dress.

Monday, it used forvillage meetings Tuesday, it is meeting venue forpoliticians. Wednesday, it is a play ground forchildren. Thursday, it is used as a villagelocal court. Friday, it acts as a classfor girls by teacherNabune. Saturday, it is used as a drinkingjoint for the elders only. Sunday, people gather there forprayers. Ee..ee, what blessed mango tree

Didi walks past a deserted area where she sees some poor children. While sleeping, she thinks about educating the children and raising them as her own. She brings the children home and raises them. The next day, she teaches the children how to read. After the day was over, she tucked them into bed. Didi also taught them how to draw and write. After a few years, Didi got a job. So after the children came back from school, they had to study on their own. There was an earthquack and the children had to move! The children had to set up their own house in the mountain. After a few years, the children went back to the village. It was rebuilt and Didi had come back! Didi went back to teaching the kids. She will always be remembered.

It is dry. The sun is hot. It is windy. It is cloudy. It is cold. It is raining. There is thunder. I see a rainbow.

My best friend lives with me. When I look in the mirror, she looks at me. When I am happy, she is too. When I am sad, she is too. Me and my friend play all day long until we are tired. We play in my dream when I am asleep. Me and my friend live together forever.

A child was born to the Alimathi family. It was a boy. His father said "The boy will take my place of selling my goods". But his grandfather shook his head and said. "He will teach yoga like me". His grandmother said. "He will become a tailor. His mother said "He will become a cook."Anand, that was the boy's name, he grew up and became 6 years. On annual day, he told a speech. In that speech, he mentioned what he wanted to become when he grew up. He said "I want to be a pilot when I grow up". His parents said "If you want to become a pilot then follow your dreams".

Once upon a time, theanimals decided tohave a party. But it wasnot for all of them. Itwas only for theanimals that had horns. The rabbit was gettingready for the party. Butthen he found out thatthe party was not foreveryone. It was just foranimals with horns. The rabbit wentsomewhere and gotsome horns. Then heput them on his headand went to the party. During the party therabbit ate and drankand danced. This made him tiredand he fell down in thesun. But while therabbit was sleeping, thehorns fell off! Then all the animalsdiscovered that therabbit was not the kindof animal they wanted.So they pulled his earstill they got bigger andbigger. Then they ran away.And that's the reasonwhy rabbits have bigears!

Tita is playing with her mother's saree. Her mother did'nt like it. So she scolded Tita. One day, she heard her mother was going to the neighbouring village. So she ironed all her clothes. Tita's mother praised her for that .

Long time ago, there were twoyoung men who lost their cows.They looked for the cows until itwas late. As it got dark, they saw a lightin a house.They agreed to go and ask for aplace to sleep. They went to the house andknocked.The door opened and they wentin.The young men didn't seeanyone. But they heard a voicegreeting them. The voice said, "I am a louse.Open the pot and have food.Open the earthenware pot anddrink amahewu." Then the louse put on its skinand went out. The young men ate, drank, andgave thanks.They left the house. As they left, they had a badthought.They said, "No, it couldn'thappen that we had food from alouse."Eventually they agreed to goback and crush the louse. They went back to the houseand crushed the louse.Suddenly the louse was gone,and the house disappeared!They found themselves outsidein the open.

Shambu the junior explorer was walking in a forest.He was going to a neighbouring village to meet his friend. He suddenly hears a tiny cry of pain.Shambu was confused. He thought" Oh no!I think someone small is hurt".He takes out his magnifying glass to find out. Shambu was correct. There sitting under a mushroom was a tiny man.The tiny man looked as if he was lost. Shambu asked the man what was the matter.The little man said that he had lost his way and it had rained heavily.Shambu said he would give the man shelter until the rain dried out. Shambu played and played with the man all day unti it was dark.Then the man and Shambu said their goodbyes and they were on their way.

Ruchi had a cat named Reena. Ruchi loved and cared for Reena so much that she would not let anyone touch Reena. Ruchi played with Reena day and night till they got tired. Ruchi fed Reena fish and milk. After a few years, Ruchi was sent to school. So when Ruchi was studying under a tree, Reena would sit on top of the tree and listen. One such day when Ruchi came back from school, Reena was gone. Ruchi searched the wholetown, but she was not there. Ruchi was heartbroken on that day. She pinned up missing posters all around the town. One day when Ruchi was drinking milk, she saw Reena running towards. At last, Ruchi had found her dream cat, Reena.

The night has come again and itis dark. After meals I go to bed with myyoung sister Anna. I am always scared becauseevery night I wet the bed. Whenever I dream, I suddenlywake up wet. I quickly change position andsleep in Anna's which is dry andwarm. In the morning, I wake up firstand leave Anna in bed. And when mother asks who wetthe bed, I loudly say it is Anna. So the next day mother decidesto sleep with Anna in her bed. Unfortunately, the same thinghappens and now there is noone to else to blame. Finally mother finds out thatAnna does not wet the bed but Ido.

This is Ndalo. Ndalo likes to read books. This is Pendo. Pendo likes to eat carrots. Ndalo grazes Pendo after school. He gives fresh water to Pendo. Father gives grain to Pendo. He milks Pendo every day. Pendo gives a lot of milk. Father sells Pendo's milk. Ndalo drinks fresh milk every day. He says, "Thank you Pendo!"

I saw a big truck drivingdown the road. A car came driving upthe road. The truck driver wastalking on hiscellphone. He was not looking atthe road. There was a bigaccident. An ambulance and thepolice came to help. Two tow trucks came.They towed the truckand the car. I was shocked.

A rat is so messy. It jumps here and there everywhere; in every corner of the house. Its long tail is so beautiful. Its cute ears are always busy. Bits of papers and chopped veggies on the floor is a bad deed of its sharp teeth. Oh! you little grey mouse.

A long time ago, theking of the bush was Mr.Lion. He sent his animals tostop the noise comingfrom a small lake in thebush. But they did notsucceed! An elephantvolunteered to stop it.The elephant was sentout as a guard. At midnight the noisebegan and the elephantstarted killing the frogs.He did the same thingthe next day. After a couple of weeks,King Lion was happybecause the elephanthad stopped the noise. But about a monthlater, they saw a lot ofinsects on their farm. King Lion asked theelephant to call thefrogs to come and eatthe insects. The elephant was verynervous because hehad killed all of them.He said: Sorry, sorry, Ik- k- k- killed them! Then King Lion said:Elephant, I asked you tostop the noise, not tokill the frogs. And theelephant was put inprison for many years! And the king told all theanimals to always doexactly what he said.

Once upon a time all animals of jungle thought to had a urgent meeting. The agenda of meeting was continuous cutting of trees by man because of that animals are short of space. Mr. Elephant started the meeting. Mr. Elephant," I am worried about my coming generations , oh! Where they will have shelter if these MEAN HUMANS will continue to cut down our natural habitats." Yeah yeah we agree said all the animals together.

... I saw a kite flying a frog (or maybe it was the frog that flew the kite)... ...and a feather flying an ant (or maybe the ant was flying the feather)... ...and a water droplet flying a gnat (or maybe the gnat flew the droplet)... ...and a balloon that flew a rat (or maybe it was the rat that flew the balloon). What did you see when the wind blew today?

Today we are going to the zoo. We are going in dad's car. We are going to see animals. Look!An elephant.Look!A lion. We walk through the whole zoo! Look!Ice cream.Look!Sweets. And there is a clown with balloons. Dad buys us nice things. Soon we must go home. We saw many animals today! We are happy and tired. I wish every day was like today!

There was a man whodidn't want to live closeto his neighbours. Andhe also didn't want hiswife to visit the homesof her neighbours. One day he went andbuilt a home way out inthe bush, far from thehomes of hisneighbours. He would go out everyday in the morning andcome home late atnight. One night the man wasvery late getting home.A hyena saw what thatman was doing. The hyena went andknocked on the door ofthe house. The woman, thinking itwas her husband,opened the door. Thehyena jumped on herand devoured her. The man, when hereturned home saw thathis wife had been eatenby a hyena. There wasnothing he could say. All this happenedbecause he didn't wantto live near hisneighbours.

Today I went to the Zoo I saw a lot.I saw a Lion I saw an Elephant. I saw a crocodile. I saw a Giraffe. I saw a lot of zebras. And I even saw a cow. It was a lot of fun.But then daddy droveus home.

A girl A bird A lion A cat

Grandma likes juggling.She juggles wherever she goes. She juggles from day to night.She juggles till the stars are bright. She juggled in the office where she was praised.She juggled in the shop and got hundred rupees. She tried juggling with mangoes, but they fell down with a!!SPLAT!!Grandma was very sad. She wanted a set of juggling balls. Grandma told grandpa she needed a set of juggling balls.So she got one. She was very happy. Grandma soon became a professional juggler.She was the best juggler in the world.

A rainbow has seven colours. The first colour is red. Kewyu is wearing a red shirt. The second colour is orange. This is an orange.What else can you see that is the colour orange? The third colour is yellow. The yolk of an egg is yellow.What else can you see that is the colour yellow? The fourth colour is green. Our banana garden is green. The fifth colour is blue. The sky is blue. The sixth colour is indigo. These berries are the colour indigo. The seventh colour is violet. My dress is violet.Violet is my favourite colour!What is your favourite colour? Do you know the seven colours of the rainbow?

I am hungry!I want a banana! I go to the tree.I pluck bananas. I have bananas, now. I eat a banana.I eat two bananas.I eat three bananas.I eat many bananas. I am not hungry, now.I have a hundred bananas What will I do? I will mix banana and sugar.I will make banana halwa! I will eat banana halwa.I am happy!

Last week I received alot of letters. On Monday my doctorwrote a letter to myteacher. Thabisile is sick. Shemust stay at home. On Tuesday I got aletter from my class. Get well soon Thabisile! On Wednesday I got aletter from my bestfriend. I drew this picture foryou. Love from Dudu. On Thursday I got aletter from my mother.

What should I do for my project?Dia stared at the the birds on the mango tree. Suddenly, Amma called Dia and Pradeep to eat lunch. The sweet smell of Gujia's, Dokhla and Thepla gave Dia an idea. Dia thought about doing her project on" The India Gate." Or "The Desert's of Rajasthan". Or "The Dancing Peacok of Mysuru." But she did'nt know what to choose. So she asked Dadhi for help. Dadhi told Dia to do her project on" Diwali". So Dia agreed. So when Dia submitted her project in class, everyone clapped their hands. Mrs Shamena, her class teacher asked her from where did she get such a wonderful project. Dia replied that her Dadhi had given her the idea. It was a wonderful project.

Mittai Lal was very fond of sweets. He was fat and round like a laddu.He would stop by the halwayi every day, to eat ladoos, Jalebis and Jamuns. One night while resting after dinner, he craved for Gulab jamuns.He soon ran to the halwayi, hoping to eat yummy Jamuns. But alas! The shop was closed.So Mittai Lal returned home sad, his tummy growling. He went to bed and soon fell asleep.He was dreaming of sweets even in his sleep. He dreamt that he was standing atop a mountain of laddus, surrounded by jalebis.A little far away, he could see a pool full of Jamuns. The sight of syrupy jamuns mesmerized him.So, he greedily jumped from the mountain of laddus to the pool of Jamuns. Thud!! He fell off from his cot.“Ouch! “ He screamed in pain from the fall.Mittai Lal's sweet dream was broken, so was his arm!

Why is the baby crying? I think she is hungry. Why is the boy sad? I think he is missing hisfather. Why is the girl happy? She has a new dress. Why is the old manlaughing? He read a good joke. Why is the lady smiling? Her children are readingquietly. What is this ladyfeeling? I think she is feelingshy.

Bunty loves to play withbutterflies... ...and with birds. She loves to play withpaper boats. She also likes to makesand castles. When Bunty goes backhome, her mother asksher to clean up. Sherefuses. "I hate soap!" shescreams. One night, she has adream. The germs areall around her castle,and are attacking her. Bunty is chased by thegerms.She runs for her life andscreams, "Help...help!" Suddenly, Soap KingBubbly appears."Bunty, don't be afraid,"he says."Go attack the germs!"the Soap King ordershis army of bubbles. The army of bubbleschases the germs away. These days, Bunty likesto use soap, and shebrushes and scrubsherself clean.

There was a greatbuilder in Kabubbuvillage. He built many houses inthe village. But he was sleeping in a bad hut. The village people talked about him every day. One day he got somemoney. He bought cement, sand, iron sheets, bricks and nails. He built a beautiful flat house witha fence. His friends rejoiced withhim. He prepared for a party,invited his friends, they ate ,drankand danced. He got many presents.

Mama wakes Chinnu and Puttu in the morning. " It's Sunday children. Time to have fun" she says.Initially the kids are still in their sleep mood but soon all that changes when they find themselves in the cute baby water tubs. After a quick brushing session of teeth and a glass of milk with a fruit gulped down, the kids who were reluctant to take a bath soon jump into the tubs seeing water toys and lots of water. Mama is soon left wondering if these kids intend to come out of the tubs at all after some time. Soon Mama joins them in the fun and lets Chinnu and Puttu to run around, play hide and seek and have a fun filled bathing playing activity.

Once upon a time therelived a boy calledJoseph who likedfootball.He could kick the ballusing either of his twolegs. Joseph plays the ballusing his head. Sometimes he controlsthe ball using his chest. One day he dribbledthrough the defendersusing the outside of hisfoot. If the ball comes fromthe air, he controls itvery well using histhigh. He also dribbles the ballvery well using theinside of his foot. He traps the ball usinghis instep. One time he volleyedthe ball using hisinstep. But he could not scorebecause the keepercaught the ball. The keeper alsopunched the ball whichwas shot by Joseph.

Viva, a cute little girl from a village called Kinwat. She goes to the school regularly.She enjoys her journey towards the school. She is curious to know about the things that she comes across daily. Her teacher teaches her about flowers, butterflies , clouds and many more interesting things in the nature. Viva is fascinated by all the things that her teacher teaches her daily. One day her teacher asks her to observe things in the surroundings. Viva is happy to see those butterflies, flower blooming , clouds and small plants around her.She can actually find what all she had learnt in the class in her surroundings . This experiences make her the "The active pupil" because of her curious nature in the class. All the other pupils takes her as inspiration to learn new things.

There were two girls, they were best friends. Their names were Salima and Begum. They watched each other so many times in mirror and said we both look same. They played, worked, ate, slept together. One day Begum and her family shifted to Hyderabad. They two cried for each other. Salima also shifted to Hyderabad, the two of them's houses were near, but they don't know that. They searched for each other. They lived in the hut areas. They two found each other at their houses. They were so happy and hugged. They lived happily ever after.

Two little hands to hold. Two little feet to kick. Two little eyes to see. Two little ears to hear. And two loving arms to HUG!

My name is Simo. I have four friends. Their names are Zizo,Lele, Sisa and Ayanda. My friend Zizo likes toplay soccer. My friend Lele likes toswim. My friend Sisa likes toplay hide-and-seek. My friend Ayanda likesto read. Me?I like to do all the thingsthey like to do. I play soccer with Zizo. I swim with Lele. I play hide-and-seekwith Sisa. Come, friend, what doyou like? Come, play soccer withus. Come, swim with us. Come, play hide-andseek with us. Come, read with us!

Once there was abutterfly named Fiffie.She was clever atworking withcomputers. Fiffie saw a girl who wasupset and sad.The girl saw a nastypicture on a website. Fiffie flew over to thegirl's house. She said to the girl,"Never go on theinternet without agrownup." The girl and Fiffiebecame friends.Fiffie went to live withthe girl. When the girl grew upshe opened her owncomputer shop.Every week she hadlessons to teachchildren how to work oncomputers. She taught the childrennever to go on websiteswithout the permissionof grownups.Because of Fiffie, thewoman never hadnaughty fingers again!

In the past, rat and frogwere friends. They lived on the samevillage Rat was a farmer of maize , Frogwas not interested in that job.At rat's home food was alwaysthere His children never knewwhat famine is Hischildren never gothungry At frogs home, therewas always famine Thiscaused frog to alwaysbeg maize from Mr. Rat It never pleased Mr. Ratto feed frogs family Mr.Rat got a good wisdomthat the agriculturedepartment passed alaw. Only maize grain shouldbe eaten not flour. Thisbecame very hard forthe frog From that time to nowfrog cannot eat maizegrain.

I am an owlI see in the night.... .....and I sleep all the day One day all the birds woke me up from the sleep Cause their friend is falling on the ground..... .....and vulture moving around All of us helped the bird to get on the branch The peacock danced for me All the birds are happy I am again sleepy....

Many years ago, theLizard and the Frogwere friends. One daythey decided to lookfor girlfriends in thecity. The Frog was jealousof the Lizard's shiningand brilliant skin. He said: What did youdo to look so beautiful?Look at me,I am so ugly.What can I do about myskin? The Lizard said:Listen! Put some waterin a pot and put it onthe fire.Next you... But the Frog said: Iknow already, I know.Shut up, my friend. Andhe left. So he arrived home andput some water ina pot. When the water beganto boil, he threw himselfinto it. and his skin was burntand his tail came off! And instead of beingbrilliant and beautifullike the Lizard, he waseven more ugly!

Once upon a time, there were 5 Avengers in Avengers headquarters One name was vision, another name was captain America, another name was War machine, another name was scarlet, another name was romanof One day, Captain went alone in the woods inside the Avengers Quinjet then the other Avengers woke up then they had their breakfast... and started watching TV. But they forgot about Captain. then War Machine reminded them about him. All the avengers had coms but... Captain had a detector in his com They located Captain in the woods. The Avengers walked through the woods. Just then they heard a sound.... It was the Green Goblin Green Goblin reached Captain and started attacking him and all the Avengers started fighting with him and the Goblin was defeated. The Avengers happily lived ever after.

Come back, cat! Play with me. Sit in your basket. Stayright here! Come back, cat! That's way too high. Come back, cat! Don't go outside.  Come back, cat! That's not yours. Come back, cat! What have you got? Come back, cat! That's not your friend! Hello, cat! Are you back? Stay in your basket. It's nap time now. Cat?

"Oh! What a wonderful world out there," thought Rosella. The breathtaking sunset! The jumpy dolphins! Ladies when they pray! And our dear earth! "Oh! Who knows what horrible people would spoil our earth!" thought Rangan. The sea monsterTUM TUK The bike monsterNANANABOO The monster of angerDHUMO And The monster of rainKOTLAMAL We should keep the earth safe and sound.

One day my sister and Iwere walking near theroad. A big truck was drivingdown the hill. A car was speeding upthe hill. The truck driver wastalking on his cellphone.He was not looking atthe road. The truck smashed intothe car! An ambulance and thepolice came to help. Two tow trucks came.One towed the truck.The other towed thecar. We saw everything.We were shocked.

There was this beautiful girl named Zara. She lived with her father. Her mom had died two months ago. Soon, Zara's father died. So Zara had to live with her step mother. Her step mother had 3 naughty daughters. One day, there was a ball at the palace. Zara wanted to go, but her mother told no. She was heartbroken. Just then, a fairy came. She gave Zara a gown. Zara thanked her. Zara went to the ball and her step mom and sisters were surprised. Zara had a nice time.

Once upon a time therelived two friends,Tortoise and Snake. On day Tortoise said to Snake, "Let us go and swim.""Alright, but I don't know to swim," answered Snake."I will teach you," replied Tortoise. They went to a swimming pool. "Who will enter the waterfirst?" asked Tortoise."You will, and I will watch you," said Snake. Tortoise entered the swimming pool. Snake observed fromthe steps. After some time, Snake entered the pool as Tortoise gaveinstructions. Tortoise and Snake swam in the shallow end of the pool. They started floating on the water. As they were floating,Tortoise startedswimming backstroke.While imitating Tortoise,Snake could not propelhimself and starteddrowning. On realising that Snake had disappeared, Tortoise hurriedlywent under water and rescued the life of the snake. As soon as Tortoise gotout of the water, heturned Snake upsidedown in order to get ridof the water that Snakeswallowed. Finally, Tortoise used the mouth-to-mouth method to removemore water.

There once was a tortoise living on the shores of a river and there was also a cunning fox who lived there. The fox was always trying to eat the tortoise but the tortoise always kept clear and lived in the waters of the river, unfortunately one day the fox caught the tortoise The tortoise was shivering with fear and hid in his shell the fox could not crack the shell. So the fox asked the turtle what he should do the turtle grabbed his courage, and spoke that the fox should put him in the water when he does so the shell will soak and become soft the foolish fox did what the tortoise said. But, as soon as he put the tortoise in the water it swam for his life

This is Mr Fly. This is Mr Big Head. Mr Big Head and Mr Flywere friends.One day, they went fora walk together. They came to the edgeof a river, and startedarguing with eachother.Mr Fly said, "You can'tjump over this river!""Yes, I can! It's you whocan't!" replied Mr BigHead. "You jump!" said Mr Fly."No, you jump first,"said Mr Big Head.So Mr Fly flew acrossthe river. Then Mr Big Headjumped into the river.But his head was so bigthat he started to sink. Mr Fly laughed, "Heehee!"But he laughed somuch that his mouthtore in two from oneside to the other!

There lived a small and happy family. Mother, father and two children. Ram, Ramya , Rahul, Rohan. Ram is a bank accountant in HDFC. Ramya is a house wife who looks after her children and take care of them. They love each other and the father give all the things they wanted. Rahul is studing in 1st class and Rohan is a baby. When Ram comes back to home after his duty, he brings so many toys for his children. Every sunday they go to see a film and at night they go to a restaurent. Their family is full of joy and happiness. After 16 years, Rahul and Rohan became big and Rahul got a job of software engineer and Rohan wants to do adventures.

There was a girl named Anna. She like to take risks and adventures. Once she went to a jungle for hiking. There she lost her way to go home. It was already too night, so she decided to go home next day. Suddenly, it started raining heavely so she ran to a cave, there she met a bear whose name is Golu. It was very stromy that night. Anna and Golu became friends and they both decided to went in search of their home. They both felt hungry and Golu climbed up a tree for fruits to eat, after while they continued their journey. At last they found the road and went back to their home. She felt very happy to have a friend like Golu.

One day, Sheema was going out to play. She played in the mud. When she got home, Her mother, Mrs Kamala saw Sheema and scolded her for she was all dirty. Sheema started to cry. Her mother gave her a bar of soap. Sheema took the bar of soap and had her bath. She ate her dinner and brushed her teeth. Her mother was very happy. When she was sleeping, she dreamt that she was a princess. She dreamt that she was being captured by bugs. She was being chased by Harkens and Doomsters. Then, king kenrykoof came to the rescue with his army. They fought the harkens and doomsters. So she built a castle to celebrate the victory of king kenrykoof.

A long time ago, therabbit and the snakewere good friends. One day they began tochat with each other.But the rabbit wasmuch cleverer than thesnake, and the snakeknew it! So, they werediscussing who couldstare the longest. Thesnake said:Let's try it. I will win bystaring at you.So the rabbit agreed tothe staring game. The snake and therabbit began to stare.They kept on doing itfor several minutes. Then the snake gottired. So he got out ofhis body and only hisskin was left looking atthe rabbit. The rabbit continuedlooking at the snake'sskin for several hours. The rabbit thought hewas the cleverestanimal, but on that day,his cleverness wasended. And that's whyto this day the rabbitsleeps with his eyesopen!

I enjoy skipping. I enjoy skipping rope alone. I enjoy skipping with my friend. I enjoy reading interesting stories. I enjoy walking in the field with my friends. I enjoy washing dishes to help at home. I enjoy writing big letters which I can read easily. I enjoy eating different fruits. I enjoy sleeping on a big bed. I enjoy listening to my mother's interesting stories. I enjoy doing all these things!

I love the rainbow I love all the colours ofthe rainbow. I wish I could have arainbow house It could have a red roof. It could have a bluewindows. I could have it painted yellowoutside. It could have violetwalls inside. It could have orangeflowers. It could have indigo bed. It could have a greengarden.

Rizwan, a young kid stayed in a beautiful snow mountain near the Himalayan range. Like him this Saturday morning, the parents finally allowed the other kids who were all his friends to come out and play in the snow. As the sun finally shone like a bright star, the kids Prisha, Arwan, Vinay and Tina all were there creating multiple snowmen. Everyone loved being out there in the snow. They were playing, laughing and singing. The kids knew only those who played in the snow could understand the difference of having fun in the midst of nature. It wasn't about going to a mall or watching TV. This was bliss. They later shared the pictures to all their cousins living in cities to come and enjoy snow like them.

Tom carries a tray of ripe bananas. Tom goes to the market to sell bananas. People at the market are buying fruit. But no one is buyingTom's bananas.They prefer to buy fruit from women. "In our community, only women sell fruit," people say. "What kind of a man is this?" people ask. But Tom does not give up.He calls, "Buy my bananas!Buy my sweet ripe bananas!" One woman picks up a bunch of bananas from the tray.She looks at the bananas carefully. The woman buys the bananas. More people come to the stall.They buy Tom's bananas and eat them. Soon, the tray is empty.Tom counts the money he earned. Then Tom buys soap, sugar, and bread.He puts the things in his tray. Tom balances the tray on his head and goes home.

One day there are 3 warriors. We fight evil to protect our India. But we lost and we fought back with full might and took back our India. Dancing is fun!!! Swimming in the beach is awesome!!! Let's do it again!!! we love beach!!!

Once there was a youngman called Kumbana. When he was 25, he fellin love with a girl calledZangane. They were together for3 years, but he didn'thave enough money tomarryher. Then one day she foundshe was pregnant,because they didn't useprotection. A little girl was born,and they called herKheri. But Kumbana was stillstudying, and Zanganehad a job in a town faraway, so they had tolive apart. After a while, Zanganefound a new boyfriend.He came to live withher and the little girl. Kumbana was heartbroken. He cried andcried because he wasseparated from hisdaughter. Time went on, andKumbana found a newgirlfriend too. Theylived together, but theydid not have anychildren. Now Kheri did not likeher new father at all.She was very unhappy,and he used to beather. So when she was 12,her mother decided tosend her back to livewith her real father. Then Kumbana andKheri were both happyagain.

There was a artist and his destiny was to paint.The world was colourless. So he painted the trees brown and green. And then he painted the earth brown. He painted the elephants grey with white tusks. He painted the Praying Mantis green. He painted the starfish red and white. And the seahorse was painted pale orange with green eyes. Then the artist sat on the beach and looked at the sky. It was a beautiful sight of blue and white. He wondered who painted the sky?

Look, fire! Fire burns. Fire cooks. Fire gives warmth. Fire gives light. Look, fire! Fire is wonderful. And it is powerful.

Selemeng loves cats.There are many catsat her house. Selemeng has oneblack cat.This cat eatsa lot of meat. Selemeng has onefat cat.This cat eatseverything. Cat number three,runs up a tree.This cat gets stuckin the tree. Selemeng climbsthe tree.She gets stuckwith cat three.Selemeng's motherhas to helpthem get down. Selemeng has twolazy cats.They lie outsidein the sunall day. Selemeng has threebusy cats.They catch ratsin the kitchenat night. Selemeng hasone dog.His name isLirafi.Lirafi hasno friends.He is sad. Selemeng's catsdo not likeLirafi.They chase himout of the house.Lirafi runs away. Selmeng finds Lirafiand brings himhome.The cats are nothappy.They do notwant to seeLirafi again. How many catsdoes Selemenghave?She has eightcats. How many dogsdoes Selemenghave?She has one dog.Where is Lirafinow? How many catsdo you haveat home?How many dogsdo you haveat home?

This my daughter Polar. She is a good girl. She likes telling stories. Her mother tells her stories. Polar tells her friends too One day Polar told a very goodstory. The story was aboutcooking. Her teacher gave her acake and all becamehappy.

Thandi woke up happy and shewanted to play before going toschool. Grandma says to Thandi "you willbe late for your bus Thandi"Thandi replies "I will go nowgrandma"Thandi leaves 5 minutes later... Thandi goes to the bus stop toolate.The bus has left... The old man asked "why are youcrying child"Thandi replies "I missed my schoolbus"The old man says "I will walk you toschool". The old man askes Thandi "Is thatyour school".Thandi replies "Yes it is. Thank you"The old man leaves her at school. Thandi tells her teacher and friend'sabout she missed her bus and thenice, old man who helped her. THE END

Little hat, big hat.  Little hands, big hands.  Little goat, big goat.  Little book, big book.  Little smile, big smile.  The end.

The worms laid smalleggs on the leaves. We fed them mulberryleaves. They grew bigger andbecame fatter. The larvae made silkcocoons. Inside the cocoons, theworms turned intopupae. Some people breedsilkworms for a certainpurpose. In China they keepthousands of kinds ofsilkworms. They make silk clothsusing their cocoons.

I dance when I am happy,I dance when I am sad,I dance when I am lonely,I dance when I am mad. My teacher says,"Sit still!Don't dance about allday." But my mother says,"Dancing makes youhealthy,Dancing makes you tall,One day you'll be adancer,And surprise them all!" And I say,"One dayI'll dance and peoplewill payJust to see me leap andtwirl.'Her dancing is SOgood,' they'll say."

Cracked brown wood Painted brown lion Soft brown bread Yummy brown cakes Old brown boots Shiny brown buffalo Woolly brown hat Smooth brown dog Dirty brown mud Wet brown skin And what is this? A clean face in a dirty mirror.

I enjoy skipping with my friend. I enjoy writing letters on the board. I enjoy reading books with pictures. I enjoy eating different fruit. I enjoy helping at home. I enjoy listening to my mother's stories. I enjoy sleeping on a big bed. I enjoy doing these things. What do you enjoy doing?

Lalu the owl was a friendly fellow. All the birds in the jungle were his friends. But Lalu's best friend in the jungle was Sweety, the peacock. One day Lalu organised a party and called all his friends. In the party, all the birds danced and gifted Lalu with a crown of feathers. Lalu slept happily that night.

"Hello there!" said the bear. As glad as the cactus was to see the bear, it was starting to rain and there was a very important task she had to get done. The light was starting to flicker. She had a rope ladder to make her way up to her ledge, but not one that could reach the ceiling lamp.Now, this was no problem for the bear at all. She was tall enough to reach it, and she was great at fixing lamps. The cactus handed the bear a spare bulb. "There you go," said the bear. "You're the best!" said the cactus with a great big grin.

This is my teacher.Her name is Teacher Mulongo.She loves me a lot. Teacher Mulongo teaches us thealphabet and the vowels.I can say the letters a, e, i, o, u. she has taught us the coloursred, blue, green, yellow andorange. During nap time TeacherMulongo sings us to sleep.She sings a lullaby to us. The lullaby goes like this:Jonnie ,Jonnieyes Mamaeating sugar?No Mama,open your mouthhaaha...haaha. Teacher Mulongo knows many stories.She tells us a different story each day of the week. On Monday, she tells us storiesabout great men. On Tuesday, she tells us storiesabout great women. On Wednesday, she tells usstories about special days. On Thursday, she tells usstories about our environment. And on Friday, Teacher Mulongoasks us to tell our own stories tothe class. Our teacher is the best teacherin the world!When I grow up, I want to be ateacher.

I am singing. She is waving. I am clapping. She is stretching. He is calling. I am answering. She is listening. I am jumping... I am screaming... I am travelling by Taxi...

Yellow butterfly on thesand. Yellow plastic drum inthe house. Yellow horse in thestreet. Yellow truck in the city. Yellow bowl on theground. Yellow flowers in abucket. Yellow trolley in thelane. Yellow slide in the park. Yellow house on thecorner. Yellow Africa on myhead. And where do we alllive?In Africa.

The root grows first. It grows down into thesoil. Then the stem grows. Itgrows up towards thesun. The first leaves comeout. The bean plant growstall. Then the flowers comeout. The flowers turninto beans. There are lots of seedsin the bean.

In the past, rat and frogwere friends. They lived on the samevillage Rat was a farmer of maize , Frogwas not interested in that job.At rat's home food was alwaysthere His children never knewwhat famine is Hischildren never gothungry At frogs home, therewas always famine Thiscaused frog to alwaysbeg maize from Mr. Rat It never pleased Mr. Ratto feed frogs family Mr.Rat got a good wisdomthat the agriculturedepartment passed alaw. Only maize grain shouldbe eaten not flour. Thisbecame very hard forthe frog From that time to nowfrog cannot eat maizegrain.

One elephant is going to drink water. Two giraffes are going to drink water. Three buffaloes and four birds are also going to drink water. Five impalas and six warthogs are walking to the water. Seven zebras are running to the water. Eight frogs and nine fish are swimming in the water. One lion roars. He also wants to drink. Who is afraid of the lion? One elephant is drinking water with the lion.

One day three boys from Muguluvillage went to hunt. They useddogs to help them. When they were moving they comeacross two guinea fowls. Theychased until they killed them. When it came to timefor going back home,they wanted to sharethe birds.One boy ranaway with the twobirds. The other two boys chased himand removed the birds from him.

EldoradoGaily bedlight,A gallent knight,In sunshine and in shadow,Had journeyed long,singing a song,In search of Eldorado.But he grew oldThis knight so boldAnd over his heart a shadowFell as he foundNo spot of groundThat looked like EldoradoAnd, as he strengthFailed him at length,He met a pilgrim shadow'Shadow', said heWhere can it be'The land of Eldorado?'

I love water. I enjoy playing withwater. It is raining. Rain gives us water. I enjoy playing outside. But it is raining. I enjoy playing out inthe rain. My hair is wet fromplaying in the rain.My father is fixing myhair.

A crow was thirsty. He moved a very longdistance in search for water for drinking butfailed. He then tried to fly back. To the tree where hewas living. It took him a long time because hewas weak. As he was moving he saw water in a pot insomeone's compound. The water was almost at the bottom of the pot.His beak could not reach the water in the pot.He thought of a way to get that water. An idea came to his mind.Hegot small stones He dropped one stone andthe water in the pot jumped. The crow put his mouth and drunk the waterdroplets. He got another stone and repeated theexercise. He kept on doing this until he wassatisfied..

The frog and the lizard were oncegood friends . They used to live at the beachwhich was the frog's compound. The frog lived in water but couldalways come out to the beach. The lizard lived on one of the talldry trees near the beach. One day, the lizard requested thefrog to pay a visit to him at hishome on the tree. ''I cannot climb a tree'' a frogexplained to his friend," I will helpyou to climb" answered the lizard. They then agreed to a certain date,the one frog could pay the visit. The day came and the lizard tied arope onto the frog's tail. He started pulling the frog upwardsthe tree .the frog cried out "amfeeling a lot of pain, the lizardhowever, continued pulling therope upwards the frog's tail gotremoved and the Frog fell down. The frog lost his tail to date thefrog does not have its tail.

Every morning when Iwoke up I hurried to eatmy breakfast. Then I would take my blue blouse and run out of the houseto find my friend Muthoni. Once I found Muthoni,we would forgeteverything else. Muthoni and I would play hide and seek.I hid in big trees, while Muthoni went behind huts. Muthoni and I went to the village welltogether.We went to fetch firewood together.We went to school together. We promised each other that we would work hard in schooland graduate. But one day, Muthonidid not come to school.I stood at the door toour class and waited forher to arrive.But she did not come. When I returned home that day, I told my mother about myfriend Muthoni. I continued with school,but I missed Muthonivery much. But every day I went toschool, I looked forMuthoni everywhere. Now I am a lady, but I still miss my friend Muthoni.

Once upon a time,there lived a happyfamily. They never fought witheach other. They helpedtheir parents at homeand in the fields. But they were notallowed to go near afire. They had to do all theirwork during the night.Because they were made of wax! But one of the boyslonged to go out in thesunlight. One day the longingwas too strong. Hisbrothers warned him... But it was too late!He melted in the hotsun. The wax children wereso sad to see theirbrother melting away. But they made a plan.They shaped the lumpof melted wax into abird. They took their birdbrother up to a highmountain. And as the sun rose, heflew away singing intothe morning light.

Sipho goes to town withhis sister. His sister is looking atthe clothes in shops.Sipho is bored. Sipho sees somethinghe likes. The shoes are on sale. He tries them all on. His sister buys himsoccer shoes. Why are they in such ahurry to get home? Luckily he got to thesoccer field on time! Heis wearing his newsoccer shoes.

Antoni, who is that?Antoni, that's LettiaAntoni, what is shedoing? Antoni, she isskipping.One! MamlenzemamlenzeTwo! MamlenzemamlezeThree! You're out!

One day, mama got a lot of fruit. "When can we have some fruit?" we ask."We will have the fruit tonight," says mama. My brother Rahim is greedy. He tastes all the fruit. He eats a lot of it. "Look at what Rahim did!" shouts my little brother."Rahim is naughty and selfish," I say. Mother is angry with Rahim. We are also angry with Rahim. But Rahim is not sorry. "Aren't you going to punish Rahim?" asks little brother. "Rahim, soon you will be sorry," warns mama. Rahim starts to feel sick. "My tummy is so sore," whispers Rahim. Mama knew this would happen. The fruit is punishing Rahim! Later, Rahim says sorry to us. "I will never be so greedy again," he promises.And we all believe him.

tra-la-la-la...rum-pa-pum-pa-pum... What a lovely day to make some memories! Let me set up my camera and start clicking away. Click Click. Waah! The warm glow of the sun now caught in my camera so beautifully. I have no words to describe the breathtaking scenery in front of me. Maybe only the images in my camera can do justice to it. Click Click. Oh! But wait! Even though it is all so stunning, something is amiss. I am missing something. What is it that does not feel right? Ah! Yes! I got it. My eyes are the best camera and my brain is the best memory. Let me stand here and soak it all in. No camera. No clicks. Just me and Mother Nature in all it's glory. I will cherish this forever in my heart. Now it clicks perfectly!

Tembe wakes up at seven o'clock inthe morning, just after the firstcockcrow.she washes her face,brushes herteeth, puts on her school uniformand leaves for school. Her elder brotherescorts her, they talkwhile moving untilTembe reaches school. At 8:10 she is already inclass, ready for lessons. At break time she plays with herfriends in order to refresh theirminds and also in preparation forthe next lesson. while in class, sheparticipates fully andteacher Nabune likesthat. The teacher gives themtime to rest after a longlesson and Tembe liesnext to the teacher when they wake up, thehelps them cross therailway and get backhome when Tembe gets home, she spends some time with herfamily members. after supper, shebathes, puts her nightwear goes to bed praysand finally sleeps tillthe next day. How do you spend your day?

Once upon a time, there was a very shy train named Chulli. Chulli was fascinated with cows. But one day, Chulli got scared when he saw a cow right on his tracks.

Mouse was looking for a newhouse. This looks like a nice house. "You can come and sleep withme," said Puppy."Thank you," said Mouse. That night, Mouse's dreamswere bouncy and muddy. "You can come and sleep withme," said Parrot."Thank you," said Mouse. That night, Mouse's dreamswere noisy and wild. "You can come and sleep withme," said Fish."Thank you," said Mouse. That night, Mouse's dreamswere cold and wet. Mouse needed somewherewarm and dry.  Mouse found a bookshelfnearby. That night, Mouse had warmand cosy dreams.Good night Mouse.

In a forest, there lived a rat by name Moti and his friend Mohan, an elephant. They eat and play together. One day Mohan got trapped in a net. Mohan cried loudly. On hearing Mohan's voice Moti ran to help. Moti started cutting the net with its sharp teeth. Slowly Mohan was able to come out of the net. Mohan thanked Moti for saving his life and they lived happily forever.

Why is the sky blue? It is not always blue. Is it? Why are leaves green? They are not always green. Are they? Why are bananas yellow? Ripe bananas are yellow.Unripe bananas are green. Why are umbrellas black? Not all umbrellas are black. Why is blood red? There is iron in the blood.That makes it red. Why is salt white? I don't know!

I have lost my bat, and Icannot find it. I looked behind thedoor. It was not there. I looked for it on theshelf. I could not find itthere. I looked for it under thebed. Not there either. I searched inside thebox. There was no signof it. I searched the attic.It was not there. I looked here, there andeverywhere.I could not find itanywhere.

The name of my dog isStopie. Stopie likes to bark atnight. Stopie has two puppies. Stopie's young puppylikes to steal food in thekitchen. The other puppy hasthree legs. The three dogs barksduring the day and atnight.

How many cats?0Zero cats. How many cats?1One cat. How many cats?2Two cats. How many cats?3Three cats. How many cats?4Four cats. How many cats?5Five cats. How many cats?6Six cats. How many cats?7Seven cats. How many cats?8Eight cats. What's this we see?A kitten is stuck in a tree!"I will rescue you! "Mama, can we keep him? Just one more."How many cats?9Nine cats.

Once upon a time,there was a manwalking in the bush.Suddenly he met aLion! The Lion was resting inthe short winter grass. The meeting was sosudden that the mandid not know what todo.He was full of fear. At first, the Lion wassurprised too, and alittle afraid.But there was a lowrumble in his stomach,because he was hungry. The man suddenlyfound himself up a talltree.He began to shout atthe Lion. The Lion lay downunder the tree, waitingfor his meal.As time went on, theLion fell asleep, or so itseemed. Soon the man fellasleep.Then he woke up again.Finally he dozed off andwent fast asleep. But then he crasheddown on the sleepingLion! They both woke upconfused andfrightened.The lion forgot his mealand ran for his life. The man began to runin the same directionas the Lion.Then he realized thathe was running with theLion! So he changed directionand escaped beingeaten by the Lion!

Mzi lives in a thatched house. Thulani lives in a square house. This house is a rectangle. The roof of this house is a triangle. This man is building his own house. This house is new. This house is old. I wish I lived in this house.

Once upon a time there was a girl. Her name was Ananya.She was happy when her friends came to her house for Diwali. So she decorated the house and burst crackers.And her mom and dad told her "You burst crackers carefully."The End

Monkey see,Monkey do I'm a monkey,Just like you! Swinging high,Swinging low, I'm always moving,On the go Hungry, hungryAll the time Food is always on my mind Making mischief on a tree Takes its toll,As you can see!

A cycle A bike An auto rickshaw A car A train A boat An aeroplane A parachute?

Lalu the owl was a friendly fellow. All the birds in the jungle were his friends. But Lalu's best friend in the jungle was Rainbow, the peacock. Rainbow the peacock was a great entertainer. He could sing and dance really well. One day Lalu organised a party and called all his friends! All of Lalu's friends came and danced and sang songs and even gifted Lalu a crown of feathers.But Lalu was said. Rainbow had not come to the party. Lalu waited and waited. His eyes were only on the door. Finally he saw Rainbow rushing towards his house. Huffing and puffing.Ohh, the joy and relief on Lalu's face. Lalu was a happy owl again!

Crocky the crocodile was sad. He had no friends to play with. Babloo, the butterfly said, "I will play with you, Crocky. Do not cry." Tutoo, the turtle said, "I will play with you, Crocky. Do not cry." Susie, the snake said, "I will also play with you, Crocky. Do not cry." Fred, the frog and Fenny, the fish also came to play. So, Crocky found new friends to play with. He became happy.

One evening Tintu was playing with his garden friends. He was enjoying the bird's play and suddenly.. a beetle called Tintu and asked him to feed it with something delicious. Tintu rushed home and took some vegetables. He made a tasty and yummy soup. The beetle was happy to taste the soup.

Jiril the squirrel sat on the branch of a tree. He was all alone. Jiril felt lonely. He wished he could play with his friends. He ran down the tree to the ground. He did not find his friendsbut he did find an acorn to eat. Jiril looked and looked for his friends but he could not find them.He took a nap because he was tired. When Jiril woke up, he decided to climb the tree again.But he was still half asleep and he rolled down to the ground. Soon he found his friends playing and eating.Jiril was happy now as he was not alone.

The dreamy cat saw fishes falling from the sky like a rain. The cat thought if she eats enough fishes, she will grow up and become a tiger.

Once upon a time there was a mango tree. The mango tree did not have any friend. He was very sad. He was so sad that he started to cry. Then one day a bird came and sat on the tree. The bird asked the tree why he was crying. The tree did not tell the bird why he was crying. So the bird just sat there.

One day, Raju, Dimpy and Pinky went to watch a movie. They were very happy to finish their exams and were waiting to go for a movie. When they heard about Jungle Raja movie, they were very happy. When they were watching the movie, instead of hearing the tiger's roar, they were hearing a frogs's croaking noise. They were wondering what happened to the mighty tiger. They were curios. And suddenly they see Sharma uncle jumping off his seat screaming. And alas, what they see? A on his seat. All burst out laughing. Adventure movie of Jungle Raja became a comedy movie of Frogiee Raja.

Summer Autumn Winter Spring

One day owl went out to search for food. She met Mr. Bat and asked him if he wanted to join her. Mr. Bat agreed. While they were searching baby bat also joined them. They couldn't find any food but they saw a plate full of food. All of them ate their fill and ran away. The food was of an woodcutter. He was angry when his food was not there. He could never find out who took it!

Igaba lakhe lalilifutshane ngokwenene. Umnyango wakhe wawusezantsi ngokwenene. Ibhedi yakhe yayimfutshane ngokwenene. Ibhayisekile yakhe yayimfutshane ngokwenene. Lendoda yayinde ngokwenene! Yenza intonga yegaba ende kakhulu. Yenza imigubasi emide kakhulu. Yenza ibhedi ende kakhulu. Yathenga ibhayisekile ephakame kakhulu. Yahlala esitulweni esiphakame kakhulu. Yatya ngefolokhwe ende kakhulu. Yayishiya indlu yayo yayohlala kwihlathi elikhulu. Yaphila iminyaka emininzi.

Nazi izilwanyanazasekhaya. Inkomo iyakhala ithi,"Mhu-u-u. Mhu-u-u."Inkomo ifuna amanzi. Ibhokhwe iyakhala ithi,"Mhe-e-e-eh. Mhe-e-eeh."Ibhokhwe ifuna amanzi. Ihashe liyakhala lithi,"Yi-hi-hi-hi. Yi-hi-hi-hi."Ihashe lifuna amanzi. Ihagu iyakhala ithi,"Hho-hho-hho-i-i-i-i."Ihagu ifuna amanzi. Isikhukukazi siyakhalasithi, "ke-ke-ke-keeee,ke-ke."Isikhukukazi sifunaamanzi. Inja iyakhonkotha ithi,"Hawu-hawu-hawu."Inja ifuna amanzi. Umlimi uphendula uthi,"Shhh! Nanga amanzi!"

Rhoqo xa ndigqiba kuhlamba kwibhafu eshushu, shushu.Umzimba wam uphola ube myoli myoli myoli.Ingaba ngubani owenza oko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Ubisi kwikomityi yam – luyatshisa, tshisa tshisa.Kodwa msinyanye luyaphola ndiluginye.Ingaba ngubani owenza oko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Ikhethini iyaphaphatheka efestileniIndiphulule izidlele.Ingaba ngubani owenza oko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Nako kubaneka, kude phaya.Amafu amnyama ayabaleka ayasondela.Ingaba ngubani owenza oko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Imithi iyahexa, amagqabi ayaphaphatheka.Iintyatyambo ziyawa.Ingaba ngubani owenza konke oko?NguVayu, umoya! Kude nekhaya siyadlalaKodwa, ndiyaliva ivumba leelekese zikamama.Ingaba ngubani owenza oko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Nantso iglasi yokusela efestileni. Yawa emhlabeni yaqhekeka.Enkosi bawo, bendingeko apho. Ngubani owenze loo ntlondi?Nakanjani!Nakanjani! Kukhala umlozi. Uloliwe uyangena.Andimboni, kodwa ndiyakuva ukundila kwakhe.Ingaba ngubani owenza oko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Akabonakali. Akavakali.Uwenza wonke umsebenzi.Akaphosi neliswi. Ingaba ngubani? Nakanjani!Ngumoya!

Namhlanye andiyi esikolweni. Yiholideyi! Namhlanje andizubukela umabona-kude/ iTV. Akukho mbane! Ndiza kwenza ntoni? Namhlanje ndiza kumamela kumzimba wam! Okokuqala, Ndiza kuthi cwaka. Cwaka kakhulu.Ukuze ndibe nokumamela kumzimba wam. Ewe, ngoku Ndiyawuva umphefumlo wam.Ngaphakathi...  ngaphandle ...Ngaphakathi...   ngaphandle ... Kwaye ndingawenza umphefumlo wam ungxole kakhulwana...Ssssssssssssss!Ngokuthe cwaka  Mmmmmm. Kwaye ngoku ndiyayivavs intliziyo yam, ibetha!Doodom,  doodoom,  dooodooom. Ndingayenza intliziyo yam ihambe ngokukhawuleza okanye ngokungxolayo?Ewe, ngokuxhumela phezulu naphantsi ngamaxesha amashumi amabini. Ngoku, bona intliziyo yam ibetha ngokukhawuleza.Doodom,  doodoom,  dooodooom! Kwaye ukuba ndibeka iminwe yam esihlahleni sam,ngoko ke ndingakwazi ukuva iPulse yam! Kwaye ndiyaziva ndihlekaleni samHaha  haha  haaah  haaa! Kwaye ndililaBoohoooohooo! Kwaye ndihlekaQhwa  Qhwaba  Qhwa  Qhwaba ! Ndingasiva isisu sam sixuxuzelaGuddu   guddu  guddu... kwaye sisithindityse'  ndityse'. Kwaye impumlo yam iyaliva ivumba leejalebisi zigcadeka ekhitshini/egumbini lokuphekela likamama. Kuluyolo ukuphulaphula umzimba wam.kwaye ngoku ndifuna ukuva imihlathi yam ihlafuna. Kwaye nesisu sam sigquma ziijalebisi ezimnandi nezishushu zikamama!

Ndiyacula. Uyabulisa. Ndibetha izandla. Uyazolula. Uyakhwaza. Ndiyaphendula. Umamele. Wenza ntoni?

Iphi ikati yam? Ingaba iphantsikwebhedi? Ingaba iphezukwekhabhathi? Ingaba ingaphayakwesofa? Ingaba isecalenikomgqomo? Ingaba iphakathikwengobosi? Ingaba iphaya phandle? Nantsi ndiyifumene!

Umoya uyabhudla.Umoya ubhudla ikhaya lethu. Umoya unamandla.Ukrazula ikayiti yam isesandleni sam. Ndileqa ikayiti yam.Umoya undivuthelela kude nekayiti yam. Umoya uba sisitshingitshane.Isitshingitshane siyinyusela phezulu kakhulu ikayiti yam. Isitshingitshane siyandigubungela.Andiboni nto, andikwazi kubamba nto. Ingaba iphi ikayiti yam ngoku?Mhlawumbi ibambeke emthini. Mhlawumbi ikayiti yam isabhabha esibhakabhakeni. Ngelingeni umoya uyaphela.Mna ndisajikeleza. Xa ndiyeka ukujikeleza ndiyabheka-bheka.Ingaba uye phi umoya? Andiyiboni naphi na ikayiti yam.Andisawuva umoya. Mhlawumbi ndizakuyifumana ngomso ikayiti yam.Ngoku kufuneka ndiye ekhaya phambi kokuba umoya ubhudle kwakhona. Umoya uyavunguza.Uvunguza udlula ekhaya. Umoya unamandla.Uphephula ikhayithi esandleni sami. Ngiyalijaha ikhayithi lami.Umoya ungiphephulela kude nekhayithi lami. Umoya uphenduka isivunguvungu.Sithatha ikhayithi lami kudekude phezulu. Isivunguvungu siyangigwinya!Angisaboni lutho. Angithinti lutho. Liphi ikhayithi lami manje?Mhlawumbe ligaxele esihlahleni. Mhlawumbe ikhayithi lami lisandiza phezulu esibhakabhakeni. Umoya ugcina wehlile.Ngisaphenduphenduka. Lapho ngiyeka ukuphenduphenduka ngiqalaza yonke indawo.Ushonephi umoya? Angilibonindawo ikhayithi lami.Umoya angisawuzwa nhlobo. Mhlawumbe ngizolithola kusasa ikhayithi lami.Manje, kufanele ngiye ekhaya, ngaphambi kokuba umoya uqale futhi ukuvunguza.

Kudaladala uDyakalashe wavulaelambe kakhulu. Waphakamawangena ehlathini ikhangelaindawo enokutya. Wadibana nesitiya nesitiyaseediliya. Ezi diliya zazintlezijinga zibonakala ukubazivuthiwe kwaye zivuzisaizinkcwe. Ingxaki yayikukubazazijinga phezulu kakhuluemthini. "Kwowu zikhangekazikhangeleka zimnandikanobom ke ezi diliya,” wacingawatsho umfo wakwaDyaki.Wahlehla umva elungiselelaukuthatha owona mtsi uphezuluukuze afikelele kwezo diliya. Nka phantsi! Kwavakalaisithonga sokubhulekakukaDyalakashe esiwangomqolo phantsi. Ezi diliyazaziphezulu kakhulu kunokubaebecinga. Waphakama umfo omkhuluezixelele ukuba akasozeatyhafe. Wahlehla umvangakumbi elungiselelaukuthatha isantya ukuzeatsibele phezulu kakhulu. Nkakwakhona! Wabethekangamandla kwesi sihlandlo. Wazama wazama uDyakalasheeqhutywa liphango kodwa nkqiwancama. Wayetsiba abethekephantsi wade wabuhlunguumqolo wakhe. Ekugqibeleni wancamawanikezela. Warhotyozaegoduka eqaqanjelwaesabanjwe linxele likakhetsekile Wayekhethazeke kakhuluuDyakalashe. Wema wajongangemva kwezi diliyaazincamayo. "Bezimuncukakade nezi diliya,” watshouDyaki. Wangena endleleniencamile elambe elufele.

Kwathi ngaminazana ithileuDyakalashe ekhangela ukutyawabona intakazana ibhabha isiyaemthini. Lentakazana yayiphetheigaqa elikhulu lesonka samamzingaloo mlonyana wayo utsolo. "Ndiyasifuna esasonka samanzi,"wacinga watsho udyakalashe.Sasibonakala simnandi kakhulu.Wayesele evuza izinkcwe umfoomkhulu. Wakhawuleza wosulaumlomo esenzela ukuba intakazanaingamboni ukuba uyarhala. Intakazana yayibhabhe imini yonke,koko yayidiniwe ifuna ukuphumla.Yathi ngcu kwisebe lomthi ithathaisiqabu. UDyakalashe wathivovololo phantsi kwaloo mthi kuhlelikuwo intakazana. UDyakalashe wabulisa intakazanaenoncumo olukhulu. "Molontakazana! Ubukeka umhle kakhulunamhlanje. Iintsiba zakhoziyakhazimla ubukeka usempilweni.Kuyabonakala ukuba ineneuzikhathalele.” Intakazana yaba negugu kakhulu xaisiva lamazi amnanadi kangaka.Kaloku iintakazana ziyakuthandaukunconywa. "Ndiva kusithiwa unelona lizwilimnandi kwaye ingoma yakhoimyoli kuzo zonke iingomazehlabathi,” waqhatha watshouDyakalashe. “Khawundiculeleingoma nje ibe nye.” Yho! Yavuthelana intakazanangamabhongo isiva ukunconywanguDyakalashe ingaqondi ukubaiyaqhathwa. Yavula amaphikoyatyhala isifuba isenzela ukubaliphume kakuhle ilizwi layo. Yatshongeyona ngoma yakhe yamnandi. Khilikiqi! Saphuncuka isonkasamanzi emlonyeni wentakazanasawa ezantsi kanye phambikoDyakalashe. Safika umfo omkhuluesililindile engafuni nokubasifunyanwe ngumhlaba. Wasicholawabaleka naso ehamba esitya. Yathiisothuka intakazana ifuna isonkasayo wabe uDyakalashe ejikelaigophe engena phakathikwamahlahla.

UMinti uyakuthanda ukudlala namabhabhathane… …kwakunye neentaka. Uyakuthanda kanti nokwenza amapomakazi ngesanti. Uyakuthanda kanti nokwenza amapomakazi ngesanti. Xa uMinti ebuyela ekhaya, umama wakhe umcelaukuba acoce ikhaya lakhe.Kodwa uyala. "Ndiyazicaphukela iisepha!” ukhwaza atsho. Kwathi ngabusuku buthile uMinti wafumana iphupha.Ipomakazi lakhe lesanti laligcwele iintsholongwane,ezinye zazimhlasela. Nanko uMinti eleqwa ziintsholongwane.Akazange abalekele obu bomi! Wakhala ekhwaza, “Nceda…Nceda!” Ngephanyazo, Kwavela uGwebu inkosi yeesepha.“Minti musa ukoyika,” watsho uGwebu.“Hlaselani ezi ntsholongwane!” watsho uGwebu inkosi yeesepha eyalela umkhosi wakhe wogwebu. Yeka oko umkhosi wogwebu ukuleqa ezo ntsholongwane! Nanamhla uMinti uyakuthanda ukusebenzisa isepha.Uyazihlamba azigutyule ukuze acoceke.

Sonke saya kwitheko lorhwebo eDasara. Utata wathengela uChintu iindondo ezinomtsalane.Umama wandithengela ikepusi eqaqambileyo ebomvu.Ubhabha wafumana iilekese. Endleleni egodukayo, umoya omkhulu weza.Wavuthuza, ikepusi yam yaphaphatheka. Ikepusi yam Yaxhaseka esebeni lomthi omdala wephayphali. Ndalika kakhulu.Kwaye andasitya isidlo sam sangokuhlwa. Emva kwexesha ngobo busuku, inyanga yavela.Yajonga ikepusi yam emthini omdala wePhayphali. Ndayilinganisa ikepusi yam.Inyanga yancuma ngolonwabo.Ndancuma nam ngokunjalo. Ukuphuma kwesikolo ngemini elandelayo, umama wam wandipha ikepusi ekhazimlayo, entsha, ebomvu."Inyanga iyithumele," watsho. Ngobo busuku,, sobabini inyanga namsathwala iikepusi zethu, sancuma.Sasonwabile. Ucinga ukuba ilanga lifuna umnqwazi? Qaqadisa yeyiphi ikepusi endiyithwalayo namhlanje?

Kudala-dala, uSikhukukazi noKhozi babengabahlobo. Ngenye imini, uKhozi wafika uSikhukhukazi ephumle phantsi komthi neebhegi zakhe ezinegrosari. USikhukhukazi wayeme ngomlenze omnye. UKhozi wabuza kuSikhukukazi, "Uphi omnye umlenze wakho?" USikhukhukazi waphendula uKhozi wathi, "Unovenkile unqumle umlenze wam waze wandinika ezi bhegi endaweni yawo." UKhozi wabuza kuSikhukukazi ukuba angakwazi na naye ukwenza loo nto. Naye wayeyifuna ibhegi egcwele igrosari. USikhukukazi wavuma. UKhozi waya kunovenkile wamcela ukuba anqumle omnye umlenze wakhe aze amnike ibhegi enegrosari ngaphakathi. Unovenkile wavuma. UKhozi wangcileza ngomlenze omnye wade wayokufika ekhaya. Wayonwatyiswe kakhulu zizinto awayezinikwe ngunovenkile. Wathi akufika ekhaya uKhozi, wabona uSikhukukazi ehamba ngayo yomibini imilenze yakhe. Wabanomsindo uKhozi waze waleqa uSikhukukazi. Kodwa akazange amfumane. Yiyo loo nto, uKhozi esoloko ekhangela amantshontsho kaSikhukukazi. Xa ethe walibona intshontsho, uyalibamba alitye.

Kutheni na le nto isibhakabhaka siluhlaza? Asisoloko siluhlaza. Kunjalo? Kutheni amagqabi eluhlaza nje? Akasoloko eluhlaza.Kunjalo? Kutheni na le nto iibhanana zimthubi? libhanana ezivuthiweyo ziluhlaza.Iibhanana ezingavuthwana ziluhlaza. Kutheni na le nto izambrelizimnyama? Zonke izambreliAzimnyamanga. Kutheni na le nto igazi libomvu? Kukho i-ayon egazini.Loo nto ilenza libe bomvu. Kutheni na le nto ityuwa imhlophe?Andazi.

Le yinkomo.Inkomo intle! Emini yinkomoeqhelekileyo, Ibhabhisa iKhayihi, Okanye ikhaba ibhola. Ebusuku inkomoebalaseleyo! Isindisa imiphefumlo, Kwaye ilwa ulwaphulomthetho. Kodwa, ukuba uvala amehlo akho ngokuqinileyo ngenene,kwaye wenze Umnqwno - Inkomo ingeza Kukubona nawe ngokunjala! Isiphetho.

Ndiyathanda ukufunda. Ndingafundela bani? Umntwana ulele. Ndingafundela bani? Umama nomakhulu bayapheka. Ndingafundela bani? Utata notatomkhulu balungisa imoto. Ndingafundela bani? Ndizohlala phantsi ndizifundele mna.

Lo nguPalesa. Uneminyaka esixhenxe ubudala. Igama lakhe lithetha ukuthi 'intyatyambo' kulwimi lwakhe iSetswana. UPalesa uyavuka athethe nomthi weeorenji. "Nceda mthi weeorenji, khula ube mkhulu usinike amaorenji amaninzi avuthiweyo." UPalesa uhamba ngeenyawo ukuya esikolweni. Endleleni uthetha nengca. "Nceda ngca, yiba luhlaza kakhulu ungomi." UPalesa udlula kwiintyatyambo zasendle. "Ncedani zintyatyambo, qhamani ukuze ndihombise ngani iinwele zam." Esikolweni uPalesa uthetha nomthi osembindini wesakhiwo. "Nceda mthi, khupha amasebe amakhulu ukwenzela sifundele phantsi komthunzi." UPalesa uthetha nemithi yokubiyela ejikeleze isikolo sakhe. "Nceda ukhule womelele, unqande abantu abakhohlakeleyo bangangeni." Xa uPalesa ebuyela ekhaya esuka esikolweni, undwendwela umthi weeorenji. "Ingaba awakavuthwa amaorenji wakho?" uyabuza uPalesa. "Amaorenji aseluhlaza," wanesingqala uPalesa. "Ndiyakukubona ngomso mthi weeorenji," watsho uPalesa. "Mhlawumbi uyakube sele unalo iorenji elivuthiweyo lam."

NguJaaka lo, umlobiwaseNeminya. Uloba kumlamboiNayile. Unesikhephe, umnathanegwegwe. Uvuka ekuseni rhoqoukuze abambe intlanziyaseNayile. Ngentsimbi yeshumi,uthengisa iintlanziemarikeni eJunja. Kwenzeke ntoni, Jakaa?Ibalekile intlanzi?Unxunguphele. "Izinto azihambikakuhle namhlanje.Umoya waseNayileawundivumeli ndilobe.Enye intlanzi imkenegwegwe lam." "Kodwa ndinethembalokuba kuzobangconongomso, ngobandithenge igwegweelitsha."

Kudala-dala, umvundlanenkawubabengabahlobo.Ngenye imini, ngexeshalendlala, umvundlawamema umhlobowakhe ukuba bazodlala. Umvundla wathi,"Masidlaleukuphekaphekana!"Inkawu yabuza,"Sizakuyenza njanilonto?" Ke ngoku umvundlawaphendula, "Kufunekasibase umlilo, sigcwalise imbisangamanzi, ke ngokusiyibeke emlilweni. Mna ndiyakungenakuqala. Xa ndibethaisiciko sembiza, uvule.Ngoku ndizokuphuma." Inkawu yavumaukuyenza lonto. Ngokoumvundla wangenakuqala embizeni,amanzi eqala ukubila. Umvundlawankqonkqoza, inkawuyasivula isiciko. Kodwa kuthe xa ilithubalenkawu, umvundlawathatha ilityekazielikhulu, walibekaphezu kwesicikosembiza esakugqibawahlala phezu kwaso. Kuthe xa amanzi eqalaukubila, inkawuyankqonkqoza, kodwaumvundla akakhangeasivule isiciko. Ngoku inkawu yafa, kengoku umvundla watyaumhlobo wakhe!

Ndililahlile iphini lam lokubetha ibhola, Kwaye andilifumani. Ndikhangele emva kocango.Belingekho phaya. Ndilikhangele ethaleni.Akhange ndilifumane phaya. Ndilikhangele phantsi kwebhedi.Alikho nalapha. Ndiphengulule phakathi etyesini/ebhokisini.Akukho nophawu lwalo. Ndiphengulule indawo ephantsi kophahla.Andikhange ndiyifumane naphi na. Ndikhangele apha, phaya, nakwindawo zonke,Andiyifumananga naphina.

UNamukuru nomntakwabo balungele ukuya esikolweni. UNamukuru uthwala umntakwabo kwibhayisekile yakhe. Abahlobo babo bayababulisa endleleni eya esikolweni. Ngeli lixa beseklasini, inkawu iyafika ngaphandle. Inkawu imka nebhayisekile kaNamukuru! Abantwana baleqa inkawu. Inkawu ishiya ibhayisekile phantsi komthi. Inkawu idadela kwisiqithi esiphakathi kwichibi. Ikhwela phezulu emthini. Inkawu iyabulisa iphephezelisa isandla! Abantwana nabo bayabulisa bephephezilisa izandla. UNamukuru uyifumene ibhayisekile yakhe kwakhona.

NguLekishon lo.ULekishon ubiza injayakhe. ULekishon nenja yakhebasa imfuyo edlelweni.Ilanga liyatshisa. ULekishon nenja yakhebanxaniwe kwayebalambile. Bayahamba bayokufunaamanzi. ULekishon ulahlekelwaziinkomo zakhe. ULekishon uqalisaukulila. Ugqiba ekubeni ayeekhaya nenja yakhe. Iinkomo ziyifumeneindlela egodukayo!ULekishon nenja yakhebavuya kakhulu.

Ndingabaleka ngawo. Ndingaxhuma ngawo. Ndingadanisa ngawo. Ndingaqubha ngawo. Ndingatsiba ngawo. Ndingakhaba ngawo. Ndingasuka ndihambengawo. Kodwa andingekhendibhabhe ngawo.

UZama ulungiselela ukuya esikolweni. Utata upheka isidudu sesidlo sakusasa. "Umama wenza isidudu esiluncuthu!" utsho uZama. Isidudu sinika uZama amandla okuya esikolweni. Isidudu sivuthiwe. Utata ugalela ubisi, ngothando. "Tata, ndicinga ukuba esi sidudu sifuna ukongezwa iswekile," utsho uZama. "Isidudu sikamama simnandi kakhulu kunesidudu sikatata," uyacinga uZama. "Tata, ndingayongeza iswekile?" uyabuza uZama. Utata wongezela uZama iswekile. "Yhu! Tata! Ugalele ityuwa esidudwini sam!" "Tata, uzobuya nini umama?" uyabuza uZama.

Ndiyavuko ndibase umlilo. Ndibilisi amanzi. Ndikhethe inkuni zokubasa umlilo. Ndizamise imbiza. Ndishayele phantsi. Ndihlambe izitya. Kutheni mna ndisebenza nzima...... elo xesha yena umnakwethu uyadlala?

Kudala-dala, kukho iqelalezilwanyana ezineempondoelagqiba kwelokuba zibenomdliva wepati phezuluezintabeni. Zamema ezinyeizilwanyana ezineempondokuphela. Hayi ezinye. Yathi ihagu yakuva ngale pati,yacinga yacinga, "Heeeandinazimpondo kanene. Ndizakuthini bethu?" Ngengomso, yeza necebo. Izakuzenzela iimpondoizincamathisele ngamafuthaokuncamathisela! Lasebenza nyhani eli cebonehagu yazingomba isifubangokuhlakanipha xa ivunyelwaukuba ingene epatini. Ingxakiyayile yokuba ipati leyayikwindawo ekufuphinelanga. Yathi isakuyondelelana ipatikumnandi nyhani kujuxuzwa,suke aqalisa ukunyibilikaamafutha, yhoo! nazo iimpondonazo zisiwa.Zothuka ke ezinye izilwanyanaezineempondo. “Ngubani kengoku lo ungenampondo?Ungene njani apha?” zabuzana. Ikumkani yezilwanyanayangqokola isithi, “Nqakulaniloo hagu niyiphosele kude leemhlabeni.”Hayi ke zonke izilwanyana, zithezisakuva ilizwi elibekweyikumkani, zonda ngehagunjengoko ziyalelwe. Zayixhakamfula ihagu,zayiphosa kude le ezantsiemhlabeni.Owu usizana lwehagu! Layakuwa bhuu phantsi ngempumlo.Impumlo yaba sibaca torhopaca. Ungothuki ke xa ubona ihaguinempumlo ethe paca ukubasibaca oku, kuba ayizangeitshintshe kusukela mhla yawa.

UHamisi udinga iyunifomu entsha yesikolo. Utata wakhe umsa ezivenkileni. UHamisi ubona inkwenkwe enxibe ihempe entle. "Yaze yantle ke la hempe," wacinga njalo uHamisi. "Nam ndirhalela ukuba nehempe efana naleya yala nkwenkwe," watsho uHamisi. "Jonga, uthengisa ezi hempe zikhethekileyo," watsho uHamisi. "Tata, ndicela undithengele yona." "Hamisi, kufuneka ndikuthengele iyunifomu," watsho utata wakhe. "Andinayo imali eyanele yokuthenga loo hempe," watsho utata. Utata kaHamisi uhlawulela iyunifomu. Uyothuka xa ebona kubuya itshintshi. Kusele imali eyanele ukuba athenge nehempe! Le yimini kaHamisi yethamsanqa! Inokuba uza kukhetha eyiphi ihempe?

Ibhola. Ibhola yam. Ibhola yam ebomvu. Ibhola yam enkulu, ebomvu. Ndiyakhaba. Ndikhaba ibhola yam. Ndikhaba ibhola yam ebomvu. Ndiyikhaba kakhulu ibhola yam ebomvu! Phi? Iphi ibhola yam? Iphi ibhola yam ngoku? Iphi ibhola yam ebomvu ngoku? Iphezulu. Iphezulu kakhulu. Iphezulu kakhulu esibhakabhakeni. Iphezulu kakhulu esibhakabhakeni, ngaphaya kwenyanga. Imkile!

Sonke saya kwithekolorhwebo eDasara. Utata wathengelauChintu iindondoezinomtsalane.Umama wandithengelaikepusi eqaqambileyoebomvu.Ubhabha wafumanaiilekese. Endleleni egodukayo,umoya omkhulu weza.Wavuthuza, ikepusiyam yaphaphatheka. Ikepusi yam Yaxhasekaesebeni lomthi omdalawephayphali. Ndalika kakhulu.Kwaye andasitya isidlosam sangokuhlwa. Emva kwexesha ngobobusuku, inyanga yavela.Yajonga ikepusi yamemthini omdalawePhayphali. Ndayilinganisa ikepusiyam.Inyanga yancumangolonwabo.Ndancuma namngokunjalo. Ukuphuma kwesikolongemini elandelayo,umama wam wandiphaikepusi ekhazimlayo,entsha, ebomvu."Inyanga iyithumele,"watsho. Ngobo busuku,,sobabini inyanga namsathwala iikepusi zethu,sancuma.Sasonwabile. Ucinga ukuba ilangalifuna umnqwazi? Qaqadisa yeyiphiikepusi endiyithwalayonamhlanje?

Kwakukho ihlathi elimnyama. Yayilihlathi elikhulu elimnyama.Kwakukho imithi emininzinendlela emxinwa.Izilwanyana ezininzi neentakazazihlala apha. Ngenye imin, zonke izilwanyana zadibana.“Uvile?”wabuza uTota, isikhwenene.“Ewe” watsho uHirni, ixhama.“Intoni?” wabuza uDarpok, umvundla.“Sinesikolo ehlathini,”Waphendula uZhoola, inkawu.UMota, indlovu yamangaliseka, “Hmph?”uLamboo, indlulamthi yathi, “Oo kulungile!”uDheema, inkumba yatswina, “Khawuleza,masihambe. UTota, isikhwenene sabhabha phambili.UZhoola, inkawu yatsiba emthini ukuyakomnye umthi.UPoorakha, irhamba larhubuluzangokukhawuleza.“Apha!” wakhwaza uTota. “Ungafunda?”“Igqwethekile, ndiyacinga,” watsho uZhoolaejinga esebeni.UPoorakha waqgibezela, “Si-i-i-i-i.Akukho mntu unokufunda.” Kwakamsinya, bonke abanyeabahlobo baqhagamshelanenabo.ULamboo wajonga ngaphakomthi.“Akukho mntu apha,” watsho.UZhoola waphinda, “Akukhomntu apha.”UTota wacebisa,”Jongangocoselelo!”UPilloo, ibhere elincinanewapapasha, “Ndifumeneigumbi!” “Ndifumene ujingi,” wachazauDheema.Zintoni ezi ziqobo?”UDarpok wafuna ukwazi.“Yintoni le?”Yayingumbuzo kaZhoola.UPoorakha wacacisa,“Ndiyakholwa ukuba yipensilele.” UMota noLamboo bafumanaigumbi lokufundela.Babiza abanye, “Jonga, yintonile!”Wonke ubani weza nobhaka.Baqalisa ukukhwaza, “ Titshala!Titshala!Uphi utitshala wethu??”Akwabikho waziyo. Baza beva umgqumo.Beva umgqumo omkhulu.Beva umgqumokazi.UPoorakha wakhathazeka.UDeema woyika.UTota wazimela emvakwebhodi.ULamboo noZhoolababedidekile. Ngubani lo?“Hupu! Watsho uZhoola inkawu.Akwatheha nomnye.Bonke bajonga kutitshala.Phezulu naphantsi ngocoselelo.Baza bajongana omnyenomnye. Utitshala wajika ukuba abhaleebhodini.“Xhuma,” watsho uZhoola.“Bhabha!” watsho uTota.Ngqe-e, ngqe-e, ngqe-e,wabaleka uMota.“Baleka, baleka, baleka,ngokukhawuleza,” wakhwazauDheema.“Bhagoooo,” bakhwaza bonkengexesha elinye.Wathi akujika utitshala…Kwakungekho nomnye eklasini.

Lo nguMbali. Ngutishala wam. UMbali uhamba ngeentonga. Lo nguMxolisi. Ungoyena msasazi ndimthandayo kunabo bonke. UMxolisi unengxaki yamehlo. Lo ngu-Ayanda, ummelwane wam. U-Ayanda sisithulu. Uthetha ngezandla. Lo nguSizwe. Ungumdlali wesoka obalaseleyo esikolweni sam. USizwe akanazo izandla. Kodwa ukora amanqaku amaninzi kwiqela lethu!

Umama ugcwalisaipheyile elibomvu. U-Abongile udlalangelori ebomvu. U-Deon uphetheiintyatyambo ezibomvu. U-Anti unxibe ijeziebomvu. Kukho ilanga elibomvuentla kotat'omkhulu. Kukho isithuthuthuesibomvu esimiseesitalatweni. Icikilishe elibomvulihleli phezukukaBabalwa. Injini ebomvu yokucimaumlilo isesitishini. Nanku uSibahle enxibeumntla obomvu. Uzama ukulinganisaiibhutsi ezibomvu. Azimlingani!

Rhoqo xa ndigqibakuhlamba kwibhafueshushu, shushu.Umzimba wam upholaube myoli myoli myoli.Ingaba ngubani owenzaoko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Ubisi kwikomityi yam –luyatshisa, tshisatshisa.Kodwa msinyanyeluyaphola ndiluginye.Ingaba ngubani owenzaoko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! IkhethiniiyaphaphathekaefestileniIndiphulule izidlele.Ingaba ngubani owenzaoko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Nako kubaneka, kudephaya.Amafu amnyamaayabaleka ayasondela.Ingaba ngubani owenzaoko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Imithi iyahexa,amagqabiayaphaphatheka.Iintyatyambo ziyawa.Ingaba ngubani owenzakonke oko?NguVayu, umoya! Kude nekhaya siyadlalaKodwa, ndiyalivaivumba leelekesezikamama.Ingaba ngubani owenzaoko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Nantso iglasi yokuselaefestileni.Yawa emhlabeniyaqhekeka.Enkosi bawo,bendingeko apho.Ngubani owenze loontlondi?Nakanjani!Nakanjani! Kukhala umlozi. Uloliweuyangena.Andimboni, kodwandiyakuva ukundilakwakhe.Ingaba ngubani owenzaoko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Akabonakali.Akavakali.Uwenza wonkeumsebenzi.Akaphosi neliswi.Ingaba ngubani?Nakanjani!Ngumoya!

"Sesiphi isilwanyana esishiye la maqanda apha?" kubuza uNja. "Ndicinga ukuba la maqanda ngaka Dada," watsho uNja. "Ndiza kuwa gada la maqanda," watsho ecinga uNja. "Ukhe wawabona amaqanda wam?" wabuza uXam."Hayi," kuphendula uNja. UXam wahambela zonke izilwanyana ebuzisa, "Nikhe nawabona amaqanda wam?" Aqandusela amaqanda. Abantwana baka Xam babesoloko belambile. UXam watyelela uNja.Waweva amantshontsho wakhe ngaphakathi kwendlu kaNja. UXam wakhawuleza wangena endlini kaNja, wamqhwaba. UXam wamleqa uNja wada wayomfikisa emlanjeni. "Uxolo, bendicinga ukuba ngamaqanda kaDada." "Ndiyakuxolela," watsho uXam. "Ngoku siya hamba siyo qubha."

UTingi wayehlalanomakhulu wakhe. Wayesoloko enakekelaiinkomo kunye naye. Ngenye imini amajoniafika. Athatha zonke iinkomo. UTungi kunyenomakhulu babalekabazimela. Bazimela ehlathinikwade kwasebusuku. Ke ngoku aphindaabuya amajoni. Umakhulu wafihlauTingi phantsikwamahlahla. Elinye lamajoni labekainyawo lalo phezukwakhe, kodwa wayewathula. Xa bebona ukubabakhuselekile, uTingikunye nomakhulubaphuma. Ke ngoku bachwechwababuyela ekhayabethule.

Ndiyamthanda utitshala wam. Mhle, ufundisa kakuhle, unobuntu aze abe nomonde. Namhlanje, uziphothe kakuhle kakhulu iinwele zakhe. Ufake namaso anemibala emihle kakhulu. Khawubuke amaso akhe, aluhlaza, namhlophe, nabomvu, namthubi. Mama, ndicela uphothe iinwele zam, nam ndifane notitshala. Ukuba bendimdala bendiza kunxiba amaso ezinweleni zam. Nam ndiyakurhalela ukuba mhle ndifane notitshala wam!

Eli bali lithetha ngoMgcininekhaya lakhe lezilwanyanaeziziinkedama. Le nyanga iphelileyoibixakeke kakhulu kwelikhaya. UNomsa ononyakaomnye ezelwe wabangokowokuqala ukufika.Wayebhityile ekhathazekile. Kodwa ngokukhawuleza,uNomsa womelela. Waqalisaukudlala nezinye izilwanyana. Ngenye imini kulonyanga,kwafika inqwelo-ntaka kwelokhaya leenkedama. Kulo nqwelo-ntaka kwakukhointshontsho lendlovulombathiswe ngenguboenkulu. UNdiwa wayephantsikwengubo. Wayeneentsukuezintlanu ubudala. UMgciniwancancisa uNdiwa ibhotile. Ngobunye ubusuku, wonkeumntu wavuswa kukufikakuka Ambia. UAmbia wayeneenyangaezintlanu ubudala.Wayebuthathaka emvakohambo lwakhe olude. Ngenxa yentamo yakhe ende,uMgcini wayibambelaphezulu ibhotile encancisauAmbia. Iinkedama zokugqibelaukufika kulo nyanga zilambileyayingamantshontsho uKopi,uKepi kunye noKeji. UMgcini nabancedi bakhebazithanda zonkeizilwanyana, nditshonezihluphayo. Abantu abakwikhayalenkedama basebenzangamandla. Bathemba ukubangenye imini iinkedamazingakwazi ukuziphilela. Ezizilwanyana zibuyele endle.

Ngenye imini,izilwanyana zathathaisigqibo sokwenzaitheko. Kodwakwakungangeni zonkeizilwanyana. Yayilithekolezilwanyanaezineempondo zodwa. Umvundla wayewazilungiselela ukuyaethekweni. Kodwawafumanisa ukubaasilolika wonke-wonke.Yayilele zilwanyanaezineempondo zodwa. Umvundla wayandaweni ithilewafumana mpondozithile. Waye wazibekakuye entloko wazewaya ethekweni. Ngexesha esethekweniumvundla waye watya,wasela, wadewaxhentsa. Lento yamenzawadinwa waze walalaelangeni. Kodwangelixesha aleleyo,iimpondo zaye zawa! Ke ngoko, zonkeizilwanyana zayezafumanisa ukubaumvundla lo akasiso esisilwanyana bebecingaukuba siso. Ke ngoku,zaye zamtsalangeendlebe zadezanwebeka kakhulu. Waze wabaleka.Yiyo lento imivundlaineendlebe ezinkulu!

Lo nguNdalo. UNdalo uthanda ukufunda iincwadi. Lona nguPendo. UPendo uthanda ukutya iminqathe. UNdalo wolusa uPendo xa ebuya esikolweni. Umseza amanzi acocekileyo napholileyo. Utata kaNdalo upha uPendo ukutya kwakhe. Utata usenga uPendo yonke imihla. UPendo uyohlisa. Utata uyalithengisa ubisi lukaPendo. UNdalo usela ubisi olutsha yonke imihla. UNdalo uyabulela, "Enkosi Pendo!"

Kudala-dala,umnumzanauNgonyamawayengukumkaniwehlathi. Wathuma izilwanyanazakhe ukubaziyokuphelisa ingxoloeyayisechibini aphaehlathini. Kodwa zangeziphumelele. Indlovu yazigqatsaukuyayiphelisa. Indlovuleyo yathunywa ukubaiyokugada. Ezinzulwini zobusukuyaqalisa ingxolo yazeindlovu yaqalisaukubulala amasele.Yaphinda ngosukuolulandelayo yenzangokukwanjalo. Emva kweevekana,waba novuyo ukumkaniuNgonyama ngobaundlovu wayeyiphelisileiingxolo. Kodwa emvakwenyanga, babonaizinambuzane ezininzientsimini yabo. Ukumkani uNgonyamawacela undlovu ukubaabize amasele azotyaizinambuzane. Waba noloyiko undlovungoba wayewabuleleonke. Wathi, "Uxolo,ndi-ndi-ndi-ndiye,ndiwabulala!" Wathi ukumkaniuNgonyama, "Ndlovu,ndakucela ukubauphelise ingxolo, hayiukuba ubulaleamasele." Waze ukumkaniwaxelela zonkeizilwanyana ukubazisoloko zisenza ngqointo ayithethileyo.

Kutheni ubhabha elilanje? Ndicinga ukubaulambile. Kutheni inkwenkweiqumbile? Ndicinga ikhumbulautata wayo. Kutheni intombazanayonwabile nje? Unelokhwe entle. Kutheni indoda endalaihleka nje? Ifunde isiqhuloesilungileyo. Kutheni inenekazilincumile nje? Abantwana balobafunda ngokuthecwaka. Liva ntoni eli nenekazi? Ndicinga ukuba uzivaenentloni.

UMinti uyakuthanda ukudlalanamabhabhathane… …kwakunye neentaka. Uyakuthanda kantinokwenzaamapomakazi ngesanti. Uyakuthanda kantinokwenzaamapomakazi ngesanti. Xa uMinti ebuyelaekhaya, umama wakheumcela ukuba acoceikhaya lakhe. Kodwauyala. Ndiyazicaphukelaiisepha!” ukhwazaatsho. Kwathi ngabusukubuthile uMintiwafumana iphupha.Ipomakazi lakhe lesantilaligcweleiintsholongwane, ezinyezazimhlasela. Nanko uMinti eleqwaziintsholongwane.Akazange abalekeleobu bomi! Wakhalaekhwaza,“Nceda…Nceda!” Ngephanyazo, KwavelauGwebu inkosiyeesepha. “Minti musaukoyika,” watshouGwebu.“Hlaselani ezintsholongwane!”watsho uGwebu inkosiyeesepha eyalelaumkhosi wakhewogwebu. Yeka oko umkhosiwogwebu ukuleqa ezontsholongwane! Nanamhla uMintiuyakuthandaukusebenzisa isepha.Uyazihlamba azigutyuleukuze acoceke.

Igama lam nguSimilo. Ndinabahlobo abane. Amagama abonguZuko, uLizo, uViwenoSiyanda. Umhlobo wam uZukouthanda ibhola. Umhlobo wam uLizouthanda ukudada. Umhlobo wam uViweuthanda undize. Umhlobo wam uSiyandauthanda ukufunda. Mna, ndithanda konkeabakuthandayo. Ndidlala ibhola noZuko. Ndidada edamininoLizo. Ndidlala undize noViwe. Yiza mhlobo.Wena, uthandani? Yiza, uzodlala ibholanathi. Yiza, uzodada nathi. Yiza, uzodlala undizenathi. Yiza, uzofunda nathi!

Kudala-dala, icilikishenesele babengabahlobo. Isele lalinomonabubuhle nenkazimloyecilikishe. "Wenze njani ukuzeubemhle? Jonga mna,ndimbi. Ndenze njaningolwam ulusu?" latshoisele. Lathi icilikishe,"Mamela, galela amanziembizeni uyibekeemlilweni. Ecalenikwakho . . . ." Kodwa isele lathi,"Sendiyazi, ndiyayazi.Thula, mhlobo wam."Lahamba. Lafika ekhaya lagalelaamanzi embizeni. Athe xa amanzi eqalaukubila, lazijula kuwo. Ze latsha ulusu lakhe,laqhawukelwanangumsila. Endaweni yokubaliqhakazele libelihle njengecilikishe, laba libinangakumbi!

Ngenye imini mnanodade wethusasihamba ecalenikwendlela. Ilori enkulu yayisihlaendulwini. Imoto yayinyuka iqhinangesantya esiphezulu. Umqhubi wayethethakwimfono-mfono yakhe.Wayengajongangaendleleni. Ilori yantlithekaemotweni. Inqwelo yezigulanenamapolisa zezakunceda. Iilori ezinkulu zafika.Enye yathatha ilori leintlithekileyo.Enye yathatha imoto. Sabona yonke intokwaye sasothukile.

UTom uphethe ingobozi yeebhanana ezivuthiweyo. UTom uya emarikeni uyothengisa iibhanana. Abantu abasemarikeni bathenga iziqhamo. Kodwa akukho mntu ozithengayo iibhanana zikaTom.Bakhetha ukuthenga iziqhamo ebafazini. “Ekuhlaleni, ngabafazi bodwa abathengisa iziqhamo,” batsho abantu. “Yindoda enjani na le?” bayabuza abantu. Kodwa uTom akancami.Uyakhwaza, “Thengani iibhanana zam! Thengani iibhanana zam ezinencasa ezivuthiweyo!” Omnye umfazi uthatha ipakethi yeebhanana engobozini. Ujonga iibhanana ngononophelo. Lo mfazi uthenga iibhanana. Abantu abaninzi beza esitendini. Bathenga iibhanana zikaTom bazitye. Msinyane,  ingobozi ayinanto. UTom ubala imali ayenzileyo. Aze uTom athenge isepha, iswekile, nesonka. Ufaka izinto engobozini yakhe. UTom ungcekelela ingobozi entlokweni yakhe agoduke.

Ndidanisa xandonwabile,Ndidanisa xandibuhlungu,Ndidanisa xandindedwa,Ndidanisa xandicaphukile. Utitshalakazi wam uthi,“Hlala phantsi uzole!Sukudanisa iminiyonke.” Kodwa umama wamyena uthi,“Ukudanisa kwenza ubesempilweni,Ukudanisa kwenza ubemde,Ngenye imini uza kubangumdanisi,Kwaye uzakubamangalisa bonke!” Kwaye mna ndithi,“Ngenye imini ndizakudanisa kwaye abantubaza kubhatalaxa befuna ukundibonanditsiba-tsibakwaye ndizibhija-bhija”...‘Udanisa kakuhleKAKHULU', bazakutsho.”

Isikhuni esikhulu esimdaka ngebala. Ingonyama emdaka efakwe umbala. Isonka esimdakaesithambileyo. Iikeyiki ezimdakangebala ezimnandi. Iibhutsi ezindalaezimbala umdaka. Inyathi embala umdakaebengezelayo. Umnqwazi wewuluomdaka ngebala. Inja emdaka ngebala egudileyo. Udaka olumdakangebala olungcolileyo. Ufele olumdaka ngebalaolumanzi. Yintoni ke ngoku le? Ubuso obucocekileyo esipilini esimdaka!

"Mama, jonga zonke ezi mpahla zincinci. Ndize kunxibantoni?" watsho uThandi."Linganisa ndibone, Thandi," watsho umama. "Jonga lo mbhinqo, uyandiqinisa," atsho uThandi elinganisa."Unyanisile mncinci. Wunike uVuyiswa," atsho umama. "Jonga nje le bhulukhwe, ayingeni," atsho uThandielinganisa."Unyanisile incinci. Yinike uVuyiswa," atsho umama. "Jonga mama le hempe, nayo incinci," atsho uThandielinganisa."unyanisile nayo incinci. Yinike uVuyiswa," atsho umama. "Jonga le jezi, mama, nayo incinci," atsho uThandi elinganisa."unyanisile incinci. Yinike uVuyiswa nayo," atsho umama. "Jonga idyasi yam yemvula incinci," atsho uThandielinganisa."Unyanisile nayo incinci. Yinike uVuyiswa," atsho umama. "Jonga ezi kawusi zincinci," atsho uThandi ekhalaza."Unyanisile zincinci. Zinike uVuyiswa nazo," atsho umamaemthuthuzela. "Jonga ezi zihlangu. Shu, ziyanditya!" atsho uThandi."Unyanisile nazo zincinci. Zinike uVuyiswa," atsho umama. "Unempahla ezininzi ngoku, Vuyiswa! Thatha zonke," watshouThandi. "Kodwa zinkulu zonke nje ezi mpahla!" watshouVuyiswa.

Kudala, kwakuhlalausapho olonwabileyo. Abazange balwe omnyenomnye. Babebancedaabazali babo ekhayanasemasimini. Kodwa babengavumelekanga ukubabasondele emlilweni. Kwakufuneka benzewonke umsebenzi waboebusuku.Kuba babenziwe ngekhandlela! kodwa omnyewamakhwenkwewayelangazelelaukuphuma phandleelangeni. Ngenye iminiulangazelelo lwakhulangamandla.Abantakwabobamlumkisa… k Ngenye iminiulangazelelo lwakhulangamandla.Abantakwabobamlumkisa… Abantwanabekhandlela baba lusizikakhulu ukubonauntakwabo enyibilikewaphela. Kodwa, benza icebo.Babumba igaqalekhalindlela labayintaka. Bathatha umntakwabooyintaka, bamsa phezukwentabaephakamileyo. Njengoko ilangaliphuma, wabhabhelakude evumakukukhanya kwakusasa.

Kutheni na le ntoisibhakabhakasiluhlaza? Asisoloko siluhlaza.Kunjalo? Kutheni amagqabieluhlaza nje? Akasoloko eluhlaza.Kunjalo? Kutheni na le ntoiibhanana zimthubi? libhanana ezivuthiweyoziluhlaza.Iibhananaezingavuthwanaziluhlaza. Kutheni na le ntoizambrelizimnyama? Zonke izambreliAzimnyamanga. Kutheni na le nto igazilibomvu? Kukho i-ayon egazini.Loo nto ilenza libebomvu. Kutheni na le nto ityuwaimhlophe? Andazi.

Ndililahlile iphini lamlokubetha ibhola,Kwaye andilifumani. Ndikhangele emvakocango.Belingekho phaya. Ndilikhangele ethaleni.Akhange ndilifumanephaya. Ndilikhangele phantsikwebhedi.Alikho nalapha. Ndiphengulule phakathietyesini/ebhokisini.Akukho nophawu lwalo. Ndiphengulule indawoephantsi kophahla.Andikhangendiyifumane naphi na. Ndikhangele apha,phaya, nakwindawozonke,Andiyifumananganaphina.

Igeja lalilifishane. Umnyango wakhewawumncane ehlulekaukungena endlini. Umbhede wakhewawumfishane. Ibhayisikili nalolilifshane. Lendoda yayiyinde bo! Wenza igeja elide. Wenza umnyangoomude. Wenza umbhedeomude. Wathenga ibhayisikilielide. Wahlala esihlalweniesiphezulu.Wadla ngemfologoende. Washiya umuzi wakhe,wayohlala endleiminyaka.

Nazi izilwane epulazini. Inkomo ikhala ithi, "Muu-u. Mu-u-u."Inkomo ifuna amanzi. Imbuzi ikhala ithi, "Mee-e. Me-e-e."Imbuzi ifuna amanzi. Ihashi likhala lithi, "Yihi-hi-hi. Yi-hi-hi-hi."Ihashi lifuna amanzi. Ingulube ikhala ithi,"Ho-ho-ho i-i-i."Ingulube ifuna amanzi. Isikhukhukazi sikhalasithi, "ke-ke-ke-ke-e-e,ke-ke."Isikhukhukazi sifunaamanzi. Inja ikhala ithi, "Hhawuhhawu-hhawu."Inja ifuna amanzi. Umlimi uphendula athi,"Shhh! Nawa amanzi."

Imbuzi, Inja neNkomo babengabangane abakhulu. Ngelinye ilanga bathatha uhambo ngetekisi. Sebefike ekugcineni nohambo lwabo, umshayeli wabe esecela ukuthi bakhokhe. Inkomo yakhokha eyayo. Inja yakhokha imali ethe ukwendlula, ngoba kade Ingenayo imali eyanele. Uma umshayeli esezilungisela ukunika Inja ushintshi wayo, Imbuzi yabaleka ngaphandle kokukhokha ngisho isenti. Umshayeli wayecasuke kakhulu. Washaya Wachitha ngaphandle kokunika Inja ushintshi wayo. Yingakho, Kuze kube namhlanje Inja igijimela ngaphambi kwemoto ilunguze ngaphakathi ukuze ithole umshayeli oyikweleta ushintshi wayo. Imbuzi iyabaleka uma izwa umsindo wemoto isaba ukuthi izoboshwa ukuthi ayizange ilukhokhele uhambo eyayiluthathe nabangani bayo. Inkomo ayinandaba mangabe kuza imoto. Inkomo ithatha isikhathi sayo uma iwela umgwaqo ngoba iyazi ukuthi yayikhokha yonke imali okwakufanele iyikhokhe.

Namhlanje angiyi esikoleni. Yiholide! Namhlanje angeke ngiwubuke umabonakude. Awukho ugesi. Ngizokwenzani? Namhlanje ngizolalela umzimba wami! Uyawuzwa umzimba wakho? Okokuqala kumele ngithule, ngithulisise.Ukuze ngilale umzimba wami. Yebo , manje ngiyawuzwa umoya wami. Donsa…khipha… donsa…khipha… Futhi ngingawenza umoya ube nomsindo… Sssssssssssssss! Futhi ngingawenza ube phansi Mmmmmmmm. Manje ngiyayizwa inhliziyo yami ishaya!Doodom, doodoom, dooodooom. Ngingayenza inhliziyo yami ishaye ngamandla futhi ngokushesha?Yebo ngingagxumagxuma kufikela kumashumi amabili. Awubheke inhliziyo yami isishaya ngamandla.Doodom, doodoom, dooodooom! Futhi uma ngibeka iminwe yami esihlakaleni, ngiyakuzwaukushaya kwegazi!Ngabe iminwe iyezwa? Futhi ngingazizwa ngihleka haha haha haha hahahha! Noma ngikhalaBoohoooohooooo! Noma ngishaya izandla tap tappa tapppaaaa. Phezu kwako konke ngiyasizwa isisu sami sikhalaguddduu gudddu … Sithi, "Ngiphe ukudla ,ngiphe ukudla." Ikhala lami liyalizwa iphunga ekhishini likamama?Ngabe ikhala liyezwa? Kumnandi ukulalela umzimba wami!Manje ngifuna ukuzwa imihlathi yami ihlafuna. Kumnandi ukulalela umzimba wami!Manje ngifuna ukuzwa imihlathi yami ihlafuna.

Umama ebeqeda ukupakishaizingubo zakhe esikhwameniesincane. Njengob ayewaphumangomnyango,yena engangafuthi wathi, "Sala kahlekwamanje.” "Uyaphi uMama?" ngambhekangalesosikhathi ngimbuza. Ngaqala ukukhala ngilangazeleukumlandela kodwa ubabawangiphakamiselaphezukwehlombe lakhe. Ubaba wathi, "Umama uyaesibhedlela ukuyotholaumntwana." Laphongizwa "umntwana"Ngayeka ukukhala ngambuka."Kungani yena ayothola inganeesibhedlela?" ngimbuza Ubaba wangihlalisa esihlalweniesincane wathi, "ngizokutshelaukuthi kungani eyotholaumntwana esibhedlela.” Ngamlalela engichazela nangaloko ngingazisiswangaukuthi kungani engatholi lomntwana ekhaya. Uma ecedaukungichazela, Ngambuza, “Uzongithanda na umanomntwana omunye. Ubaba wangizisa duzane, wathi,“Sizohlala sikuthanda.” "Ngingambalela incwadi umaele?” Ngabuza Ubaba Ngalobobusuku ,ngaqalaukubhalela umama incwadi. Ngaklebhule iphepha encwadiniyami yomsebenzi ngaqalaukubhala... "Mama, umama, ubaba uthi uyeukuyothola umntwana omuny... …Sicela usheshe ubuye ekhaya... ... Ngifuna ukuthi uletheintombazanyana, ngizokhonaukudlala nayo uma iseKhulile ... ... Ungakwazi uzakungenisaezimbili ukuze umuntu abengawami ... ...Ngikulindile lapha ngaphandlekwendlu yethu." Ngigoqe incwadi yami ukuzengikwazi ukuyinika ubabaukuthi ukuletha yona Mama.Uma ngivuka ekuseniobulandelayo,incwadiwayesehambile.

Ngenkathi ngineminyakaemihlanu, umalume wangiphaisipho esithokozisayo.Kwakungu mdlwaneonezinyanga ezintathu ubudala!Ngelanga umalume efikanomdlwane ngajabula kakhulu.Ngangazi ukuthisenginomngane. Emva kokuba ewubeka phansiumalume waphendukela kimiwathi, “Iliphi igama ongamuphalona?”Ngawubheka lomdlwane ngasengithi, “Khokho.”Umalume wangimangazawabuza wathi, “Kungani uthiuKhokho?”Ngaphendula ngathi “Yingobaufana nokhokho.” Ngambuza umalume ukuthi ngabe uKhokhouzalwa yedwa yini.Umalume waphendula wathi ukhona omunyeumdlwane ofana ncamashi noKhokho.Ngasuka ngahamba ngayobheka umfowabokaKhokho. Ngenkathi uKhokho ebonaumfowabo waye wajabulakakhulu.Bobabili bahlanganisaamakhanda kwangathibayakhuluma. Ngambuza umalume ukuthingingabagcina bobabili yiniuKhokho kanye nomfowabo.“Kulungile,” kusho umalume.“Kodwa kuzomeleubanakekele.”Njalo kusihlwa, ngangidlalanabo ngibuye ngiyobajimisa. Emva kwezinyanga ezimbalwauKhokho nomfowabo basebekhulile, beqinile futhibenempilo.Base bekhulile ukuthingingakwazi ukubanakekelangingedwa. Ngacela umalume ukubaaphindisele umfowabo Khokhoemuva.Kodwa uKhokho waphathekakabi ngesikhathi esesele yedwa.Kwase kungathi uyangibuzaukuthi, “Ukwenzelani lokhu?” Wayeka ukudlala.Kwesinye isikhathi wayenqabaukuhamba nami.Kwezinye izikhathi adlekancane.Ngase ngiphatheke kabi.Ngazibuza ukuthi, “Konjengingenza njani ukusizauKhokho?” Ngelinye ilanga umalume wasivakashela.Ngesikhathi ngizwa izwi lakhe ngaphuma ngokusheshaendlini.Ngingakamboni nje ngezwa izinja ezikhonkothayo. ….. Ngemuva kwekhishi, babedlalangenkulu intokozo uKhokhonomfowabo! Ngendlela engase ngijabulengayo, angazanga ukuthi ubaniokwakumele ngimamukelekuqala, phakathi kuka mfowaboKhokho no malume.Ngangazi ukuthi uKhokhousezobuyela esimweni sakhesakudala njengoba umfowaboesebuyile.Sase sizophinda sigijime futhi!

Kudala, umhlaba usemusha, azintaba ezinkuluzazimboza umhlaba njengengubo nezihlahla ezindezihlabe isibhakabhaka. Kulomhlaba, kwakunedamu elimnyama elithulilelibanda. Ngaphansi kwalelidamukwakunezinyoka ezimbili. Eyodwayayikhuluphele inomhlobisoogoqene, enye yayincane ilula. Kwathi ngelinye ilanga, kwaba nesivunguvunguesikhulu. Umbani washaya ngaphansi edamini.Amanzi ahlukana ngesikhashana. Izinyoka zabonaumhlaba ongaphezulu ugcwele imibala nezidalozezimphiko. Uma amanzi evala futhi, izinyokaazizange zakhohlwa lobuyabuhle obungakaezabubona. “Asingeke sikwazi ukuhlala kulobumnyama nokubanda kwalelidamu,” zakshelana izinyoka. “Asiye phezulu siyobona umhlaba.” “ kodwa siyophila kanjani kulomhlaba?” kwabuza inyokaencane. “Sizahuqa ngezisu zethu?” “Izinyoka zomoya angeke zisihleke na ngokubaphansi kakhulu?” kwasho umngani. “Angekesihuquze kodwa sizohamba!”Kancane kancane, zeluleka izinyoka . Zihlangene,zaqala zabhukudela phezulu ekukhanyeni. Njegoba zifika phezulu edamini, okungajwayelekangakwenzeka. Imisila yezinyoka yanqamuka ngokubili.Zakhula nemilenze nezinzwane. Lapha ngaphansikwamakhanda azo, kwakhula izingalo ezimbiliezinezandla neminwe. Bazingase yizona iziyoka, kodwa indoda nomfazi. “Sizozenzela indlu yethu entabeni.”Kwasho umfazi . “ Ngamalangawonke ekuseni sizabona ilangaliphuma, bese lisifudumezeemzimbeni emuva.” “Woza,” kwasho indoda yokuqala . “Ngizoza,” kwasho umfazi wokuqala. Base behambabonke baya emhlabeni wako omusha.

Sonke sahamba saya endalini yasemakethe . Ubaba wathengela uXolani izibuko ezinhle.Umama wangithengela ikepisi egqamile eluhlaza sasibhakabhaka.Ingane yona yathola uswidi. Endleleni eya ekhaya kwaba nesivunguvungu somoya.Saphephula ikepisi lami. Ikepisi lami lagaxela esihlahleni. Ngakhala kakhulu angizange ngidle nesidlo sami sakusihlwa. Ngabo lobobusuku, kwaphuma inyanga yakhanyisa ngqoekepisini lami elisesihlahleni. Inyanga yayilinganisa ikepisi lami yase imamatheka, nami ngahleka. Ngosuku olulandelayo ukuphuma kwesikole umama wanginika ikepisi entsha ebomvu.“Ilethwe yinyanga,” kusho umama. Ngalobobusuku mina nenyanga sawagqoka amakepisi ethu sahleka.Sasijabule. Ucabanga ukuthi ilanga iyasidinga isigqoko? Qagela yisiphi isigqoko engisigqoke namuhla!

Sithanda ukudlalaibhola lezinyawo. Njalo ngoLwesinesihlangana noNeli. UNeli usifundisa ibholalezinyawo. Uma siqeda ukudlala,uyasikhuthaza. Simthanda kakhuluuNeli. Uma ehambasiyadumala. Namuhla uNeliusiphathele okuthile ... ... usiphathele izinguboezintsha zokudlalaibhola.

Kudaladala, uSikhukhukazi noKhozi babengabangani. Ngelinye ilanga, uKhozi wafica uSikhukhukazi ephumule phansi kwesihlahla nezikhwama zakhe. USikhukhukazi wayemi ngomlenze owodwa. UKhozi wabuza uSikhukhukazi, "Uphi omunye umlenze wakho?" USikhukhukazi waphendula wathi, "Umphathisitolo uwunqumile, wase enginika le mpahla esikhundleni sawo." UKhozi wabuza, "Ngingakwenza nami lokho?" UKhozi naye wayefuna izimpahla. USikhukhukazi wavuma. Engazelele lutho umphathisitolo, kwafika uKhozi. "Ngicela unginqume umlenze nami bese unginika izimpahla." Wavuma umphathisitolo. Khele, khele, khele kukheleza uKhozi ebheke ekhaya. Wayejabule nokho ngempahla ayeyinikwe umphathisitolo. Wathi efika ekhaya uKhozi, wafica uSikhukhukazi ehamba ngayo yomibili imilenze yakhe. "Mameshane!" Wathukuthela uKhozi wagxumela uSikhukhukazi. Zaya kuSikhukhukazi. Yingakho uKhozi ehlala ehubha amachwane kaSikhukhukazi. Uma eke walibamba, uyalidla.

Ngicwecwaamazambane. Ngiqoba iklabishi. Ngigrethaiziqathi. Ngigeza ubhontshisi. Ngiqoba ithanga. Ngiqoba imifino. Umama wami uqoba uanyanisi. Uanyanisi ungenzangikhale umauqotshwa.

Káínyoo peê éíshírítâ enkeráí? Kájo kéáta esúmash. Káínyoo peê eisinánuo enkáyíóní? Mebayíé etoduá ményé. Káínyoo peê eshipá entitó? Kéáta enkilâ ng'éjúk. Káínyoo peê eshipá oltásât? Kégíra aisumá enkatiní naitíshipa. Káínyoo peê eshipá enkítok? Kégíra inkérâ ényená áaisuma áaitobiraki. Káínyoo ening'íto ená kítok?Kájo nanú kétukúrrua.

Kungani isibhakabhaka siluhlaza? Asihlali siluhlaza. Kunjalo? Kungani amaqabunga eluhlaza satshani? Awahlali eluhlaza satshani. Akunjalo? Kungani ubhanana uphuzi? Ubhanana ovuthiwe uphuzi.Ongakavuthwa uluhlaza satshani. Kungani isambulela simnyama? Akusizona zonke izambulela ezimnyama. Kungani igazi libomvu Kukhona izinikamandla egazini okuyizona ezenza igazi libe bomvu. Kungani usawoti umhlophe?  Angazi.

Indlovu eyodwayahamba yayophuzaamanzi. Izindlulamithi ezimbilizahamba zayophuzaamanzi. Kunezinyathi ezinenamalanda amane.Zonke ziyophuzaamanzi. Izimpala ezinhlanunezintibaneeziyisithupha ziyophuzaamanzi. Amaxoxo ayisikhombisanezinhlanzieziyisishiyagalombilikusemanzini. Amadubeayisishiyagalolunyeayophuza amanzi. Kwafika ibhubesielilodwa lizophuzaamanzi. Ubani onesibindingokwanelesokuqhubeka aphuze?

Lona nguNkomo. Emini uyinkomoejwayelekile. Undizisa ikhayithi. Ukhahlela ibhola. Ebusuku uyinkomoenamaqhinga! Usindisa izimpilozabantu... ulwa nobugebengu. Kodwa uma uvala amehlo akho ngci, wenze isifiso... Inkomo yezimanga ingakuvakashela nawe! Isiphetho.

Ngiyathanda ukufunda. Ngizofundela bani? Udadewethu ulele. Ngizofundela bani? Umama nogogo bayapheka. Ngizofundela ubaba. Ubaba nomkhulu bakhanda imoto. Kulungile. Ngizozifundela mina.

UKhalai lona. Uneminyaka eyisikhombisa. Igama lakhe lichaza 'olungile' ngolimi lwakubo, isi Lubukusu. UKhalai uvuka ekuseni akhulume nesihlahla samawolintshi. "Ngiyacela sihlahla samawolintshi, khula ubemkhulu usiphe amawolintshi amaningi avuthiwe." UKhalai uya esikoleni. Endleleni ukhuluma notshani. "Ngiyakucela tshani, yiba luhlaza kakhulu ungomi." UKhalai wedlula izimbali zasendle, "Ngiyanicela zimbali, hlalani niqhakaza ukuze nginihlome ezinweleni zami." Esikoleni, uKhalai ukhuluma nesihlahla esimila phakathi nezakhiwo, "Ngiyakucela sihlahla, khipha amahlamvu amade ukuze sifunde siphansi komthunzi wakho." UKhalai ukhuluma nothango oluzungeze isikole, "Ngicela ukhule uqine ukuze uvimbe abantu ababi bangangeni." Lapho uKhalai ebuya esikoleni uvakashela isihlahla samawolintshi. "Asevuthiwe kodwa amawolintshi akho?" kubuza uKhalai. "Amawolintshi aseluhlaza," uKhalai edonsa umoya." Ngiyokubona kusasa sihlahla samawolintshi," kusho uKhalai. "Mhlawumbe uzobe usunalo iwolintshi lami elivuthiwe!"

Ngilahlekelwe iphini lami lokuphebeza futhi angilitholi. Ngilibheke emva kwesivalo. Alikho. Ngilibheke eshalofini. Angilitholi. Ngilibheke phansi kombhede. Angilitholanga. Ngalifuna phakathi ebhokisini. Angilifanisanga. Ngalifuna ophahleni lwendlu. Ngalibheka, lapha nalaphaya, angilitholanga ndawo.

UNamakuru nomfowabo sebelungele ukuya esikoleni. UNamakuru ugibelisa umfowabo ebhayisikilini lakhe. Abangani babo bayabahalalisela lapho bengena ngebhayisikili esikoleni. Bathi besesendlini yokufundela, kwafika inkawu phandle. Inkawu igibela ibhayisikili likaNamakuru iyaphuma iyahamba. Izingane ziyayijaha inkawu. Inkawu ishiya ibhayisikili phansi kwesihlahla. Inkawu iyahlamba iya phakathi nechibi. Inombela kudekude phezulu esihlahleni. Inkawu iyabathathazela ngesandla sayo! Izingane nazo ziyathathaza. Selibuyile futhi ibhayisikili lika Namakuru.

Ngelinye ilanga unogwajawayehamba ngasemfuleni. Umvubu naye wayekhonalapho, ezihambela futhi ezidlelautshani obumnandi. Umvubu akazange abone ukuthinonogwaja ukuthi ukhona,wamnyathela unyawongephutha.Unogwaja wamemeza ethethisaumvubu " wena mvubu!,awuboni yini ukuthiunginyathela unyawo?" Umvubu waxolisa kuye wathi, "ngiyaxolisa mngani wami,angikubonanga, ngicelaungixolele!"Kodwa unogwaja akafunangaukuzwa lutho, wathethisaumvubu wathi, "wenze lokhungabomu!,ngelinye ilanga,uzabona! uzokhokha!" Kwase kuthi unogwaja wahamba wayofuna umlilo, wathi kuye " hamba, umaumvubu ephuma emanzini eyodla utshani ufike umshise. Unginyathelile!" umlilowaphendula, " akunankinga mngani wami, ngizoyenza lokhu ongicela kona." Lokhuyana, umvubu eyodlautshani kude nasemfuleni"whoosh!" umlilo waphendukaamalangabi. Lawo malangabiacala ashisa izinwele zikamvubu. Umvubu wacala wakhalaegijimela emanzini. Izinwelezakhe zonke zazishile emlilweni.wayeloku ekhala ethi " izinwelezami zishile emlilweni! ushisezonke izinwele zami! izinwelezami ezinhle kakhulu!" Yingakho umvubu akadlaleli kude namanzi ngoba esaba ukuthi uzoshiswawumlilo. Unogwaja wathokoza kakhulu ngenkathi umvubu esha ethi, " ngazengamthola!"

UZama uvukile ulungiselela ukuya esikoleni. Uyacabanga ukuthi ngubaba ozomphekela umdokwe. Kazi uzobuya nini umama. Umnandi umdokwe kamama. "Futhi unginikeza amandla engiwadingayo esikoleni." Umdokwe kababa ulungile. Ubaba uthela ubisi ngothando. "Awumnandanga lo mdokwe! Udinga ushukela." Uyacabanga futhi uZama, "Ukube bekungumama, ngabe umnandi lo mdokwe." UZama ucela ushukela kubaba. Ubaba uthela ushukela. "Wu! Baba! Uthele usawoti!" "Baba, ubuya nini umama?"

Ngilalele uma ngifunda. Ngilalele uma ngifunda. Ingane ilele. Ngifuna ukufundelaumama. Umama uyapheka. Ngiyofundela ubaba. Ubaba ukhanda imoto. Kulungile.Ngizozifundela mina.

Ngekhala lami... ...Nginuka amasokisiangcolile. ...Nginuka izimbaliezinhle. Ngamehlo ami... ...ngibona ibhalundelindizela emoyeni. ...ngibona iKatielijabulile. Ngolimi lwami... ...nginambitha ulwandleolunosawoti. ...nginambitha i wolintshi elimnandi. Ngesandla sami... ...ngibamba isandlasakho.

Ukuba bengumphathi webankbengizonika bonke abantuimali. Kube bengimontobengizothatha abantu ngibayiselapho bathanda ukuya khonabenga khokhi. Ukuba bengumzingeli bengizozingela izilwane ezingenaboya. Ukuba bengiyigundanebengizokhula ngikhuluphalengixhose ikati. Ukuba bengi umntwanabengizokhalela izinto ezidulayokuphela. Ukuba bengiyikati bengizodla amagundane ngikhule ngibemkhulu. Ukuba bengiyisikhukhukazibengizozalela amagolideamaqanda ngiwaphe abantu. Ukuba bengingumceli wemalibengingeke ngimukeleamasente. Ukuba bengiwudokotelabengizolapha abantungezimpama. Ukuba bengiwumfundisi bengizothatha bonke abantu ukuya ezulwini. Ukuba bengimiyane bengizolala ngaphansi.

uNogwaja wayengumnganiamkhulu wenkawa Ngelinye ilanga unogwajawathi: Masihambe siyofuna intoesizoyidla. Inkawu yavuma,kodwa wayesezigwazengowakhe. Bahamba baya emasiminiombila baqala badla umbila. Kodwa unogwaja ohlakaniphilewayesekhulume nabanikazibepulazi, ukuthi abambe inkawubese eyikhombisa ukuthiiyisilima. Unogwaja ohlakanophile waqalawamemeza: Amasela! Amasela!umbila wakho usuhambewonke! Wase egxuma ebaleka. Ngokuphazima kweso abalimibase befikile bathola inkawuizama ukubaleka. Kodwainomsila omude kantiwawumbambezela. Abalimi bayilandela bememeza:Ima! Ima! Sikubonile, uwenainkawu. Kodwa bamthola base beqalabemshaya. Akakwazanga ukubekezelelaubuhungu wase ethi:Benginomngani wamiunogwaja. Uyena ongimemile. Kodwa abalimi bayinqumaumsila base beyitshela ukuthi:Hamba uyotshela umnganwakho ukuthi sikunqumeumsila! Base bahamba baya endlinikanogwaja apheka umsilawenkawu kuze bazowudla. Emva kwesidlo unogwajawabuza inkawu ukuthi iyaziukuthi beyidlani. Isilimasenkawu saphendula: Unogwaja wamtshela ukuthiubedla umsila wakhe waseebaleka. Kusukela laphobaphenduka izitha.

UHamisi udinga umfaniswano omusha wesikole. Ubaba wakhe umusa ezitolo. UHamisi ubona umfana ogqoke ihembe elihle. "Laze lalihle leliya hembe," kucabanga uHamisi. "Nami ngifisa ukuba nehembe elifana nelaloya mfana," kusho uHamisi. "Bheka, uthengisa amahembe amahle," kusho uHamisi. "Baba, ngicela ungithengele lona," esho uHamisi. "Hamisi, kufanele ngikuthengele umfaniswano," kusho ubaba wakhe. "Anginayo imali eyanele yokuthenga leliya hembe," kusho ubaba wakhe. Ubaba kaHamisi ukhokhela umfaniswano. Uyamangala lapho ebona kubuya ushintshi. Kusele imali eyanele ukuthi angathenga ihembe! Waze wanenhlanhla uHamisi! Uzokhetha liphi ihembe?

UMazinyo wayenenkingayaamehlo.Wayengakwazi ukubona ezinyeizinhlanzi. Kodwa wayengakwazi ukudlaizaqathi zakhe. USivinini ihhashi lasolwandlewathi "Mazinyo dlana izaqathizakho" Kodwa uMazinyowayengakuthandiukunambitheka kwezaqathi. "Izaqathi zizokusiza ukuthiubonekahle" kusho uSivinini. UMazinyo wabe eseyakwadokotela.UMazinyo noSivinini balindelaudokotela Shakes. Udokotela Mazibuko uthi,“Izibuko zamehlo zizokusizaubone kangcono.” UMazinyo wayengathandiukugqoka izibuko. Kodwa izibuko zamsiza ukuthiakwazi ukubona ezinyeizinhlanzi.Manje useyazidla izaqathi zakhenezinhlanzi.

Ibhola. Ibhola lami. Ibhola lami elibomvu. Ibhola lami elikhulu, elibomvu. Ngiyakhahlela. Ngikhahlela ibhola lami. Ngikhahlela ibhola lami elibomvu. Ngikhahlela ibhola lami elibomvu kakhulu! Liphi manje? Liphi ibhola lami? Liphi ibhola lami manje? Liphi ibhola lami elibomvu manje? Naliya. Phezulu. Phezulu esibhakabhakeni. Ngabe lidlule inyanga? Ngubani owaziyo?

Mina nedayinasoli lamisibuka izinyoniesibhakabhakeni. Mina nezinyoni zamisihlangane nemfeneesihlahleni. Mina nemfene yamisidlalenezindlulamithieqgumeni. Mina nezindlulamithizami sakhele inkawuibhola lobumba. Mina nenkawu yaminoGolila sidla obhananazonke izinsuku. Yonke indlela imfeneyami nenkawu besabauMnumzane Fudu. Mina noMnumzane Fudusihamba kancanekancane, siya ekhayanoNkosazana Nyoka. Mina noNkosazanaNyoka siyathandaukusisiza siculeamaculo ecelenikwechibi. Mina nomndeni wamiwonke sihlalangokukhulu ukujabula!

Sonke sahamba sayaendalini yasemakethe . Ubaba wathengelauXolani izibuko ezinhle.Umama wangithengelaikepisi egqamileeluhlazasasibhakabhaka.Ingane yona yatholauswidi. Endleleni eya ekhayakwaba nesivunguvungusomoya.Saphephula ikepisi lami. Ikepisi lami lagaxelaesihlahleni. Ngakhala kakhuluangizange ngidlenesidlo samisakusihlwa. Ngabo lobobusuku,kwaphuma inyangayakhanyisa ngqoekepisini lamielisesihlahleni. Inyanga yayilinganisaikepisi lami yaseimamatheka, namingahleka. Ngosuku olulandelayoukuphuma kwesikoleumama wanginikaikepisi entsha ebomvu.“Ilethwe yinyanga,”kusho umama. Ngalobobusuku minanenyanga sawagqokaamakepisi ethu sahleka.Sasijabule. Ucabanga ukuthi ilangaiyasidinga isigqoko? Qagela yisiphi isigqokoengisigqoke namuhla!

EHlathini laseMiwa, kwakuhlalauMfene owayehlezi ephathekekabi. Njalo mekathola umtwana,uyafa. Izinhlungu zokulahlekelwayizingane zakhe kwenza uMfeneegxuma gxume. Wayegxumelakuleli gatsha, ephindeeyekwelinye , ekhalele phezuluethi " Kwi!Kwi!Kwi!" UMfene wayehlezi ephathekekabi.Waye phatheka kabuhlungukakhulu mekabona ezinyeizimfene nezingane zazo. UMfene ophatheke kabiwayentengantenga esukangapha eyengapha. Wayentengantenga kuleli gatshaephinde eye nakwelinyeigatsha!Izinsuku zadlula uMfenewaqhubeka wakhalangokweqile. Wabesethola umtwana futhi.Wayesenquma ukuthi uzothathaumtwana wakhe eyombekaendleleni khona abadlulayobazomubona bephindebemufisele okuhle. UMfene wehla esukaemagatsheni wayobekaumtwana endleleni. Ngalesosikhathi , kwakukhonaumzingeli owayephindelaekhaya. Wabona ingane eleleeceleni kwendlela. Umzingelo wayithatha inganewayiyisa emzini wakhe.Mekafika endlini umzingeli,izingane zakhe ezintathu zaqalaukudlala ngengane yemfene. Abafana abathathu bacula:"mulahlele phezulu! Mulahlelephansi! Mulahlele kimi!Mulahlele kuye!" Imfeneibilahlelwa kusuka kulenganekuyela kwenye. Besadlala abafana abathathunengane yemfene, umamaMfene wayecashile esihlahleniebabhekile. Wayesaba ukuthimhlawumpe nayo lenganeizoshona njengalezi ezinye. Unkosikazi womzingeli wezawabona izingane zidlala ngayolemfene encane. Washongeliqinile, " Qaphelani!Muletheni la. Nizomulahlelaphansi!" Wamuthathela ezandleni zakheumtwana wemfene,wamubusisa. Mekathi unkosikazi womzingeliubeka phansi umtwana, umamaMfene weza egijimangentokozo. Wayithatha inganeyakhe wayibeka esifubeniwanyamalalela phezuluezihlahleni.

Heeeee! Kukhonainkomo enhle ekhaya. Ayinawo umsila futhiinephondo elilodwa.Ibukeke iyinhle kakhulu. Ikhuluphele, futhiinesisu esikhulu. Inamandla kakhulu lenkomo. Umelusi wayouyithanda kakhulu lenkomo. Uyifundiseukuthi ilalele izwi lakhelodwa. Uma umhlambi uyaemadlelweni uyodla, lenkomo idla yodwa. Le nkomo iyakwaziukulwa, yingakhoezinye izinkomoziyiyeke iyodwa. Abantu bayayazi lenkomo, futhibayayisaba ngobaiyalwa ngalephondolayo elilodwa.Uma ungadibananenkomo enje,ungenzani?

Lona nguMbali. Nguthisha wami. UMbali uhamba ngezinduku. Lona nguMxolisi. Ungumsakazi engimthanda kunabo bonke. UMxolisi unenkinga yamehlo. Lona ngu-Ayanda, umakhelwane wami. U-Ayanda ngumlimi. U-Ayanda akezwa ezindlebeni. Ukhuluma ngezandla. Lona nguSizwe. Ungumdlali webhola ovelele esikoleni sami. USizwe akanazo izandla. Kodwa ufakela iqembu lethu amagoli amaningi!

Ngolunye usuku injaencane yayidlala ibhola. Yabona ikati.Yathi,"Sawubona katielincane. Ngingadlalanawe?" Ikati elincanelathi, "Ngingadlalanawe." Ngingadlalanawe ibhola lakho?" "Yebo", kusho injaencane."Ibhola elibomvuleli. Ngizokhahlelelakuwe bese wenaulishaye libuyele kimi." Khona manjaloabangani ababili baqalabadlala ibhola.Inja encane yathi,"Ngiyathanda ukudlalanawe. Kumnandi.Ungumngani omuhle." Ibhola elikhuluelibomvu laphonsekangale kodonga. Ikatielincane laqalaukukhala."Asisenalo ibholaesizodlala ngalo." "Ngiyathanda ukudlalaibhola elikhuluelibomvu";kusho ikatielincane.Ikati elincane laqalalakhala lakhala futhi. "Ngizolilanda ibhola,"kusho inja encane,yeqela ngale kodonga. Ngokushesha yabeisibuye nalo ibhola.Ikati elincane lajabulelaukuthi ibhola selibuyile.Abangani ababilibadlala,badlala. Inja encane yathi,"Woza endlini yamisizobuka incwadiyezithombe."Encwadini yezithombe,babona inja encaneidlala ibhola nekatielincane!

Ngibonani ngamehlo ami. Owesifazane okhulelwe ebambelele Umphakathi wamamukela ukuthi Ngabo lobo busuku wezwakala Wabeletha umntwana oyimbongolo. Sizokwenzenjani? Abantu besho bemangala. Babaleka bonke abantu. "Ngizokwenzenjani ngalomntwana oyimbongolo?" Kucabanga lo wesifazane. Ekugcineni wazibophezela ukumthanda Umntwana oyimbongolo wakhula Umama wakhe waphatheka Umntwana umbongolo wabaleka Umbongolo wazizwa enomzwangedwa,elambile futhi ekhathele. Wagcina ezumekile. Waphaphama sekumi indoda Indoda yamthatha umbongolo Esekhulile umbongolo, indoda Ngolunye usuku banyukela Umbongolo waphaphama Umbongolo wayekhathazekile. Waphindela Umbongolo wayehamba ezibuza, Ngabe nguye umama wami lo. Wamthola umama wakhe,bahlala kahle ndawonye. Lapho umama wayegibela kumntwana wakhe bazulazule endaweni yangakubo.

UTingi wayehlala nogogo wakhe. UTingi wayejwayele ukwalusa izinkomo nogogo wakhe. Ngelinye ilanga kwafika amasosha. Amasosha athatha izinkomo ahamba nazo. UTingi nogogo wakhe babaleka bayocasha. Bacasha ehlathini kwaze kwaba sebusuku. Abaye abuya amasosha. Ugogo wafihla uTingi ngaphansi kwamaqabunga. Elinye lamasosha lamnyathela kodwa wathula. UTingi nogogo baphuma sebebona ukuthi kuphephile. Banyonyoba bagoduka.

Ubaba uthanda iphalishilempuphu. Mina ngithanda amacornflakes. Ubaba uthanda ikofi. Mina ngithanda ubisi. Ubaba uthanda amaapula. Ngithandaamawolintshi. Ubaba uthanda isinkwakanti. Mina ngithandaisinkwa esigazingiwe. Kodwa sobabili nobabasithanda amagwinya.

Ngiyamthanda uthisha wami. Ubukeka kahle. Ufundisa kahle, unomusa nesineke. Namuhla, uzeluke kahle kakhulu izinwele zakhe. Futhi ufake nobuhlalu obunemibala emihle kakhulu. Buka ubuhlalu bakhe, buluhlaza, bumhlophe, bubomvu, buphuzi. Mama, nami ngicela ungeluke ngifane nothisha. Ukuba sengimdala, ngabe ngiyabufaka nami ubuhlalu. Nami ngiyafisa ukuba muhle ngifane nothisha wami!

Lena yindaba yomgcininesikhungo sezilwaneeziyizintandane. Inyanga edlulekwakuyinyanga ematasatasaesikhungwini.UNomusa ononyaka wabangowokuqala ukufika.Wayezacile futhi elusizi. Kodwa ngokukhuluukushesha uNomusa wavelewaqina.Waqala ukudlalanezinye izilwane. Ngelinye ilangangayo leyo nyanga,kwathi cababaindiza enophephela emhlanekuleso sikhungo. Kundiza enophephelaemhlane kwakunendlovuencane phansi kwenguboyokulala enkulu. UNdiwa wayengaphansikwengubo yokulala.Wayenezinsukuezinhlanu ezelwe.Umgcini wamncelisaibhodlela. Ngobunye ubusuku,wonke umuntuwavuswa ngukufikakuka-Ambiya. U-Ambiyawayenezinyangaezinhlanu.Wayebuthakathakaemva kohambolwakhe olude. Ngenxa yentamoyakhe ende,umgcini kwakufanelealiphakamisele phezuluibhodlela ukuzeakwazi ukumncelisa. Izintandane ezagcina ukufikangaleyo nyangakwakungamawundluayelambile oKopi, noKepi,noKeji. Umgcini nabasizibakhe babezithandazonke izilwane,ngisho nalezoezigangile. Abantu bakulesi sikhungobasebenza kanzima.Bathemba ukuthi ngelinyeilanga izintandane ziyokwaziukuzinakekela ngokwazo.Uma kunjalo ziyokwaziukubuyela endle.

Lo uNdalo. UNdalo uthanda ukufunda izincwadi. Lona uPendo. UPendo uthanda ukudla izaqathi. UNdalo welusa uPendo uma esebuya esikoleni. Umuphuzisa namanzi ahlanzekile. Ubaba kaNdalo upha uPendo ukudla kwakhe. Ubaba usenga uPendo nsuku zonke. UPendo unobisi oluningi. Ubaba uze aludayise ubisi. UNdalo uphuza ubisi olusha nsuku zonke. UNdalo uyabonga kuPendo.

Ngibone iloli elikhululigijima phansi leemgwaqeni. Imoto engu-Mercedesyayiza ikhuphukangomgwaqo. Umshayeli weloliwayekhulumaKumakhalekhukhwini. Wayengabhekileemgwaqeni. Kwaba khona okukhuluUkushayisana. I-ambulensinamaphoyisabeza ukuzosiza. Kwafika amaloli amabiliadonsa izimoto. Adonsakokubili imoto encaneneloli. Ngethuka.

Umndeni wami wonke uya eZu namuhla. Sizohamba ngemoto kababa sonke. Sizobuka izilwane sonke. Awu, nali ibhubesi! Nayi indlovu. Fuze sesizibone zonke izilwane? Bona, nanguya u-ayisikhilimu. Nangaya amaswidi. Nazi zonke ezinye izinto ezimnandi. Ubaba usithengela zonke lezi zinto nokunye okumnandi. Ngathi sesizofika isikhathi sokubuyela ekhaya. Bekumnandi ukuba nomndeni wezilwane. Ave, kumnandi ukuba ngumndeni sisonke! Ingathi malanga onke singaba kunye singumndeni!

intombazane inyoni ibhubesi ikati

Kungani ingane ikhala? Ngicabanga ukuthiilambile. Kungani umfanaephatheke kabi? Ngicabanga ukuthiukhumbula ubabawakhe. Kungani intombazaneijabule? Unengubo entsha. Kungani indoda endalaihleka? Ufunda ihlayaelihlekisayo. Kungani owesifazaneemamatheka? Abantwana bakhebafunda ngokuthula. Ngabe uzizwa kanjani lowesifazane? Ngicabanga ukuthiuzizwa enamahloni.

Kwakunentombazanaeyayikwazi ukudansa Noma uthisda efundisawayedansa Noma eskhayawayezidansela ephulaejabulile endanselanogogo wakhe. U Sindiswawayedansela nabantuehlolo. Ngemphelawayekutha futhi ekwaziukudansa.  Wagcina esedume kakhulu izithombe zakhezazibekwe ema bhodini amakhuluedolobheni

"Mama," kusho uThandi."Bheka zonke lezizimpahla sezincane. Ngizogqokani?""Linganisa ngibone, Thandi," kusho umama. "Bheka isiketi siyangiqina," kusho uThandi elinganisa."Uqinisile, sincane. Sinike uJabulile," kusho umama. "Bheka nje lelibhulukwe, alingeni," kusho uThandi elinganisa.Uqinisile, lincane. Linike uJabulile," kusho umama. "Bheka mama lesikibha, naso sincane," kusho uThandielinganisa."Uqinisile, naso sincane. Sinike uJabulile," kusho umama. "Bheka mama lelijezi, nalo lincane," kusho uThandielinganisa."Uqinisile, lincane. Linike uJabulile nalo," kusho umama. '"Bheka ijazi lami lemvula lincane," kusho uThandielinganisa."Uqinisile, nalo lincane. Linike uJabulile," kusho umama. "Bheka lamasokisi ami, mancane," asho uThandi ekhononda."Uqinisile, mancane. Anike uJabulile nawo," kusho umamaemduduza. "Bheka lezi zicathulo. Ekhu, ziyangiqina!" kusho uThandi."Uqinisile, nazo zincane. Zinike uJabulile," kusho umama. "Unezimpahla eziningi manje, Jabulile! Zithathe zonke,"kusho uThandi."Kodwa zinkulu zonke nje lezizimpahla!" kusho uJabulile.

Indlovu eyodwa iya kophuza. Izindlulamithi ezimbili ziya kophuza. Izinyathi ezintathu namalanda amane.@Zonke ziya kophuza. Izimpala ezinhlanu nezintibane eziyisithupha ziya kophuza. Amadube ayisikhombisa aya kophuza. Amaxoxo ayisishiyagalombili nezinhlanzi@eziyishiyagalolunye. Zihlezi emanzini. Kwafika ibhubesi elilodwa lizophuza. Ubani osaba ibhubesi? Indlovu eyodwa iphuza nebhubesi.

Emandulo kwakukhonaumndeni owawuhlalaujabule. Abantwana babezwana.Behlale besiza abazalibabo endlini kanyenasengadini. Kodwababengavunyelweukusondela eduzekomlilo. Kwakumele benzeyonke imisebenzi yaboebusuku.Ngoba babenziwe ngamakhandlela! Kodwa omunyewabafana wayekufisaukuphumelangaphandle elangeni. Ngelinye ilangawayehalela ukuphumelangaphandle. Abafowabobamxwayisa. Kodwa kwabesekungasasizi ngalutho!Wancibilika elangenielishisayo. Abafowakhebabephatheke kabibebona umfowaboencibilika ephela. Kodwa baveza isu.Baphendula amafuthaayesencibilikilebawenza inyoni. Bamthatha umfowabooseyinyoni bambekaphezulu entabeni. Ngokuphuma kwelanga.Wandiza eculelaukukhanyakwasekuseni.

Ugogo usiphatheleizithelo emakhethe. Izithelo ziconsisaamathe. Umfowethu uVusiakakwazangaukuzibamba.Waqala ngokudlaubhanana. Hhayi bo! Ubani olumeizithelo wazishiya? Wathukuthela wafaugogo. Wathetha! Mina no Jabu sisolaukuthi nguVusi. UJabu watshela ugogoukuthi sisola uVusi. Ugogo wambuza uVusi,wavuma ukuthi nguye. UVusi waqalaukungazizwa kahle. Watshela ugogo ukuthiuphethwe yisisu. Wagijimela endliniencane. Ugogo wasibuza ukuthisifunde sifundo siningokwenzeke kuVusi?

Inganekwane eyendoda ehlala kude le emakhaya nendodana yakhe UHubhu.Abantu emakhaya bebeyizonda lendoda ngenxa yamanga. UHubhu wayelinda kubesekubusuku kulailwe amemeze “ Sizani bo! Ngihlaselwe,Ngisizeni” Abantu beza bagijima baphethe imikhonto.“ ahleke,”UHubhu ahleke kuze kubebuhlungu isisu. “Ukahle yini Hubhu?”“ Siphi isilwane esikuhlaselayo?” kubuzaabantu“ Siyengale, Sizane bo!” Elokhu ekhombaebumnyameni emuva kwezihlahlaAbantu bajikeleze befunana nesilwanebangasithola. Bamkhuze ngokuqemba amanga. Ngobunye ubusuku indodana yakhe yamuzwa ememeza, wangazwisisi imidlalokayise ngabantu. Akwaza muntu lelolanga. Akwaza muntu lelolanga ngenxa yamanga wakhe. Balinda ukhuthi ayekeleukumemeza. “Sizane bo!” Indodana yakhe yayizwa ukuthi kukhona akungalungile. Indodanayeswa into ethusayo. Indodana yagijimela phandle yabona silwane esethusayo sihlasela usise.Indodana wabayiqhawe wethusa isilwane ngesikhuni esivuthayo, Isilwanesabaleka. Isilwane sagijimela ebumnyameni. Uhubhuwaziqhanya ngendodana yakhe yeqhawe.Wayejabulile kakhulu. Kusukela ngalelolanga uHubhu wayeka ukuqamba amanga, wabonga kakhulukundodana kahle esindise impilo yakhe wayetshala noma wubani ngeghaweeliyindodana yakhe.

Kungani isibhakabhakasiluhlaza? Asihlali siluhlaza.Kunjalo? Kungani amaqabungaeluhlaza satshani? Awahlali eluhlazasatshani. Akunjalo? Kungani ubhananauphuzi? Ubhanana ovuthiweuphuzi.Ongakavuthwa uluhlazasatshani. Kungani isambulelasimnyama? Akusizona zonkeizambulela ezimnyama. Kungani igazi libomvu? Kukhona izinikamandlaegazini okuyizonaezenza igazi libebomvu. Kungani usawotiumhlophe? Angazi.

Ngilahlekelwe iphinilami lokuphebeza futhiangilitholi. Ngilibheke emvakwesivalo. Alikho. Ngilibheke eshalofini.Angilitholi. Ngilibheke phansikombhede.Angilitholanga. Ngalifuna phakathiebhokisini.Angilifanisanga. Ngalifuna ophahlenilwendlu. Ngalibheka, laphanalaphaya,angilitholanga ndawo.

UMandla yinkawu edangele.Umama wakhe umxosheekhaya. UMandla ujabhile.Angeke adle ubhanana wakhe. UMandla ukhathele kakhulungalokho angeke adle izithelo. UMandla uwe emthini elele,washayeka phansi Bhaxa!!! Kuzo zonke izinhlangothiisihlahla ziyanyakaza.Kodwa uMandla akanawoumdlandla wokubaleka. UMandla wathuka kakhulu!Habe! Yi-apula liwe emthini. UMandla udla ama-apulakakhulu.Uthi angawadla, bese asukengejubane antininize azeajuluke bese eyaphumula. Wagijima angazi lapho eyakhona.Akwaziyo wukuthi, kumeleabalekele ehlathini achashe . UMandla wagcina ethola indawalapho azodansela khona,nalapho azophumula emvakomdanso.Udla izithelo eziningiezahlukahlukene. UMandla unamandla amaningingoba udla izithelo.Ngalokho waqala ukudansa. UMandla waqala umbukisowokudansa ebukelwa yizozonke izinyamazane.Ngaphambili kokuba adanse,nangemva komdanso, uMapeudla izithelo. Ukuzivocavoca kwakhe kwakhekuhle kakhulu, ngisho neNkosiyesivande yeza ukuzobukelaumdanso. Waphenduka kanjalo inkawuyomdanso uMandla.