Alisha needs to find a job because her family needs money for food and clothes. Alisha did not work in her home country, but she is good at cooking and likes talking to people. Maybe she could work in a restaurant? Alisha searches on the Internet for job postings. She finds an advert for a chef. That is someone who cooks in a restaurant. She goes for the job interview. The restaurant manager tells her they need someone who has trained as a chef. Alisha is disappointed, but she takes a course called "Food and hospitality". She hopes this will help her to get a job in a restaurant. Alisha has to work in a restaurant as part of her training course. She does not get paid, but she gets work experience. She adds the details of the course to her CV. A CV is a description of all the work she has done and all the courses she has taken. Next time Alisha goes for a job interview at a restaurant, she is offered the job. It is hard work. She often has to work in the evening, when her children are home from school. She is proud that she has got a job so that she can buy food and clothes for her family with her own money.

Everytime I finish my hot, hot bath,My wet body feels so cool, cool cool.Who makes that happen?Vayu the Wind! The milk in my cup is too hot, too hot.But soon it is ready for me to gulp.Who makes that happen?Vayu the Wind! The window curtains flutterAnd gently brush my face.Who makes it happen?Vayu, the Wind! A bolt of lightning far away.Black clouds moving my way.Who makes that happen?Vayu, the Wind! Branches sway and leaves tremble.Flowers gently fall.Who did it all?Vayu, the Wind! Far from the house, we are playing,Yet, I can smell the sweets mother is preparing.Who makes it happen?Vayu, the Wind! A glass tumbler on a window sill,Crashes on the ground.Thank God, I was not around.Who played this mischief?Of course, it was Vayu, the Wind! A whistle blows. A train rolls in.I cannot see, but I hear its din.Who makes that happen?Vayu, the Wind! Cannot be seenCannot be heardDoes all the workWithout a word.Who can it be? Of course!The wind!Vayu, the wind!

I asked Ajji, “May I please have some laddoos?”“Not now, beta, maybe tomorrow.”But I did not want to wait till tomorrow. I asked Ajja, “May I go out to play with my friends?”“Not now, beta. Maybe after your nap?”But I did not want to wait till after my nap. I asked Ma, “May I wear these new clothes?”“Not now, beta, you can wear them when we go out.” But I did not want to wait till we went out. I asked Papa, “May I open that nicelooking box?”“Not now, not now. You must wait.”But I did not want to wait any more. Why do big people always say,‘Not now, not now'?That night, I went to sleep feeling angry. The next day, I woke up early and went into the kitchen. Ajji said, “You can eat these laddoos now.” Ajja said, “We can play cricket now.”Ma said, “You can wear these clothes now.”Papa said, “You can open this box now.” And they all said, “Happy birthday!”

Long long ago people didn'tknow anything. They didn'tknow how to plant crops, orhow to weave cloth, or how tomake iron tools.The god Nyame up in the skyhad all the wisdom of the world.He kept it safe in a clay pot. One day, Nyame decided thathe would give the pot ofwisdom to Anansi.Every time Anansi looked in theclay pot, he learned somethingnew. It was so exciting! Greedy Anansi thought, "I'llkeep the pot safe at the top of atall tree. Then I can have it allto myself!"He spun a long thread, wound itround the clay pot, and tied it tohis stomach.He began to climb the tree. Butit was hard climbing the treewith the pot bumping him in theknees all the time. All the time Anansi's young sonhad been standing at thebottom of the tree watching. Hesaid, "Wouldn't it be easier toclimb if you tied the pot to yourback instead?"Anansi tried tying the clay potfull of wisdom to his back, and itreally was a lot easier. In no time he reached the top ofthe tree.But then he stopped andthought, "I'm supposed to bethe one with all the wisdom,and here my son was clevererthan me!"Anansi was so angry about thisthat he threw the clay pot downout of the tree. It smashed into pieces on theground. The wisdom was freefor everyone to share.And that is how people learnedto farm, to weave cloth, tomake iron tools, and all theother things that people knowhow to do.

Today I am not going to school. It is a holiday! Today I am not going to watch TV. There is no electricity anyway. What am I going to do? Today I am going to listen to my body! First, I have to be quiet. Very quiet.So that I can listen to my own body. Yes, now I can hear my breath.In... out... in... out... And I can make my breath noisier... Ssssssssssssss!And softer... Mmmmmmm. And now I can hear my heart beating!Doodom, doodoom, dooodooom. Can I make my heart go faster or louder?Yes, by jumping up and down twenty times. Now see, my heart is beating faster.Doodom, doodoom, dooodooom! And if I put my fingers on my wristthen I can hear my pulse! And I can hear myself laughingHaha haha haaah haaa! And cryingBoohooohooo! And clappingTap tappa tap tapaa. And most of all - I can hear my stomach rumblingGuddu guddu guddu... And sayingFeed me, feed me. And my nose can hear jalebis frying in mothers kitchen. It is fun listening to my body.And now I want to hear my jaws chewing. And my stomach slurping on mothers wonderful hot jalebis! Match the sounds with the part of the bodyHands - WhistleLips - Clap-clapFeet - Stomp-stomp

Kicchu woke up early one morning.“It is time to catch some fish,” he said yawning. He met Choru on the way to the pond. They were best friends who played all day long. Munia saw them marching with their fishing rods.“We are going to the pond to catch fish. Come along Munia, if you wish.” Little Munia thought for sometime. “Please don't do that,” she said, “without water, the fish will die.” They did not listen to what Munia had to say. They headed to the pond straight away. Kicchu and Choru sat waiting by the pond. Two fish swam across, one thin and another round. Then came the third fish, the biggest one they had seen. Munia said laughing, “It is bigger than Appa's feet!” Kicchu and Choru held on tight to their rods.Kicchu screamed, “MY FISH!”Choru also screamed, “NO... MY FISH!” Kicchu pulled hard...Choru pulled harder... PHAAATTT! Both the rods broke.THUDDD! Kicchu fell to the ground.SSSPPLAASH! Choru fell into the water. What had happened?What do you think?The fish had tied up both the strings!

Susheela lives in Tamil Nadu.She learnt to draw kolams from her mother. Every Pongal, she was allowed to make one kolam all by herself. Susheela loved to make kolams!She drew them on floors and steps and walls... ... on trains and on the sides of tall buildings... ... even on kites that skipped in the sky.Everyone admired Susheela's kolams! One day, the Air Force asked her to help them make a kolam!Susheela told the pilots how to dip, dive and turn their planes... ... and in minutes there was a big, beautiful and colourful kolam in the sky, that everyone in the city could see! That night, Susheela stood on her terrace and looked up at the sky. She saw the stars twinkling down at her.Where do you think Susheela will make her next kolam? Know more about Kolams...Kolams are beautiful patterns made freehand or by joining dots. People decorate the outside of their homes with kolams to welcome a new day. They are also thought to bring good luck. Traditionally, the powder used to make kolams is made out of rice flour.Kolams are also known as Moggu, Rangoli, Chowkpurna, Alpana and Hase Chittara. What do you call a kolam in your part of the country?

This is the giraffe. It has a verylong neck. It eats leaves fromtall trees. What colour is thegiraffe? This is the elephant. The males have whitetusks. They have large ears. Elephants havelong trunks that they use to pick leaves off thetall trees. Elephants eat grasses and leaves.What colour is the elephant? This is the crocodile. It lives inthe rivers and lakes. It has along tail. It can open its widemouth to eat fish and otheranimals. What colour is thecrocodile? This is the lion. He has big teethwhich he uses to catch his food.The male lions have amane.Where is the mane onthis lion? This is the crested crane. It isthe symbol of Uganda. It haslong legs and a crown. Whatcolour is the crested crane? This is the water buffalo. It eats grasses andlives near rivers and lakes. What are the thingson the top of its head called? These animals are calledzebras. They have black andwhite strips. What otheranimals look like a zebra? Here are two different animals. Here is amother warthog with her babies. Warthogshave tusks too. Which animal looks like thewarthog? The other animal is the cob. It eatsgrasses. What colour is the cob? What are these two animal friends? Where dothey live? Which one would you eat?

Today is Vasant Panchami. My parents say it is the first day of spring. Spring is the season between winter and summer. It is called Vasant Ritu in Sanskrit. In many parts of India, people pray to the goddess of learning, music and art on this day. Many birds are sitting on the tree near my house. I think they are singing to me. The leaves on the tree are new and shiny. Just like my new frock. Amma is also wearing a yellow sari ― such a pretty colour ‘basanti', and such a pretty name! Grandpa wants me to plant a tree.“But why?” I ask.“So that you will have a friend to grow up with, Meenu,” he says. “Spring is a good season to start something new.” We go to the garden. Grandpa and I dig a hole in the ground and plant a sapling. “How tall will it grow?” I ask him. "Wait and watch, dear Meenu!" he says. The squirrels are chasing each other. Tingu, the cat, chases a squirrel. And I want to chase Tingu. The garden is full of flowers.I like the yellow roses the best and Grandpa likes the white jasmine. There is a carpet of leaves under some trees. Many trees have flowers.I like spring!Everything looks so pretty in spring! Tomorrow is Holi. School is closed for two days. We have made a huge Holika with twigs, and pieces of wood.Some of us went to the forest and brought tesu flowers. Manu put the flowers in a tank of water. The water has turned a bright orange! Tomorrow we will play Holi with the orange water. We will get gujia and puris to eat.Spring is such a happy season. It is not cold, it is not hot, and it is not wet.I can play all the time!

Mother was finishing packingher clothes in a small bag. As she went out the door, shehugged me and said, "Bye fornow." "Where are you going, mum?" Ilooked up at her as I asked. I started to cry wanting tofollow her but dad lifted me upon his shoulder. Dad said, "Your mother is goingto the hospital to have a baby." When I heard "baby" I stoppedcrying and looked at him."Why is she going to get thebaby from the hospital?" Iasked him. Dad sat me on a small chair andsaid, "I will tell you why she isgoing to get the baby from thehospital." I listened keenly to him as he explained although I didn'tquite understand why she wasn't having the baby at home.When dad finished explaining, I asked, "Will she still loveme when she comes back with the other baby?" My dad held me close and said,"We will always love you." "Can I write a letter to her whileshe is there?" I asked dad. That evening, I began to write aletter to mum. I tore a paper from my exercisebook and began to write... "Mummy, mummy, dad saidthat you have gone to bringanother baby... ...Please hurry up and returnhome... ...I want you to bring a babygirl, so I can play with her whenshe grows up... ...You can bring two so one canbe mine... ...I am waiting for you hereoutside our house." I folded my letter so I could giveit to my father to bring it tomum.When I woke up the followingmorning, the letter was gone.

It was a holiday for Amma. She was reading a book. Anil had a holiday too. He wanted to do.... SOMETHING!“Amma, I want to see what is in that blue box!” said Anil.“Later, Anil,” said Amma. Anil put a stool over a chair. He climbed up to get the box down.“No, no! Not that one! All the boxes on top of that will fall on our heads, Anil!” said Amma. Anil was very angry. He was angry with his mother. “Come, let's go to the market and get you something,” said Amma. Anil was very angry even after they went to the market.“I want that one!” he said, pointing at an orange.“No, no, not that one! The fruits will all fall down!” said the shopkeeper. “I want that book!” said Anil.“No, no, not that one!” said the shopkeeper.“Take this one.” “I want that one!” shouted Anil, almost pulling out a samosa from a high stack of samosas.“No, no, not that one!” warned the shopkeeper.“All my samosas will fall to the ground!” “I want that one!” said Anil loudly. He was now in a very, very bad mood.“No, no, not that one!” said the flower seller. “Don't touch them! They will wilt.” By now, Anil was crying loudly. Everyone was looking at Anil. “I want that one! The black one!” said Amma loudly.Anil stopped crying suddenly.“Amma, no, no! Not that one!” said Anil. “Let's take this brown one!” said Anil. Then Anil gently lifted the brown puppy on top of a pile of puppies.“Amma, I am very angry with you! All the puppies would have fallen down!”Amma smiled. Anil was smiling too. He was not angry at all now.

My name is Malik and I am 39 years old. I was born in Afghanistan. My religion is different from the main religion in Afghanistan. For many years, people who belong to my religion have been persecuted. This has been very difficult for my family. A few years ago there was a war. I was afraid I would be killed. I left my family to go to Europe and start a new life. I walked for many kilometres. Sometimes I had no food and nowhere to stay. Some of the people I travelled with died. Finally I arrived. I met some people from my own country who helped me. I do not know what I would have done without them. I started to learn the language, but it was hard. I knew that speaking the language was important to get a job. I studied for several years, at first to learn the language. It was hard, but I enjoy learning new things. After studying I started working. First I worked in a restaurant, and then I became a teacher because I want to help others. I hope to go back to Afghanistan one day. Many people there need help, and I want to help them.

My name is Agostino and I am 51 years old. My job is delivering food by bicycle. I have two daughters, but we hardly ever speak. Their mother and I no longer live together because we are divorced. I live with my mother, as I cannot afford to pay rent after the divorce. Rent is very expensive in this city. A few months ago I was working as a janitor for a company. I repaired things that were broken, carried boxes, and helped when anyone needed it. One day the company fired me. I did not understand why. I saw many people delivering food by bicycle. I can ride a bicycle, so I knocked on the door of a big delivery company. They offered me three euros for each delivery. I make 40€ per day, 60€ if I am very lucky and the customers tip me. I get no paid holiday, no sick pay, hardly any rights at all. I do not think that is right, but I need the job. Most of the other employees are immigrants from all over the world. Many delivery people are injured in accidents every day. Then, when a 25-year-old deliveryman was hit by a car and died, the authorities started noticing us. It is a shame he had to die before that happened. Together with delivery people from other companies, I took a course on workers' rights with a local union. They offered us legal advice free of charge. We struggled to get more recognition and rights. After a long time all our hard work paid off. One big delivery company had to pay a huge fine and to give workers permanent jobs. It was the first time that had happened anywhere in the whole world. It looks like things are starting to improve.

Selamawit is 29 years old. She gave birth to her first child in Eritrea. She and her family had a hard time there, so they decided to go to Italy. Inga left home just before she turned 19. She moved to Norway and had her first child there. When Selamawit became pregnant with her second child, she wondered what it would be like to have a child in a different country. Selamawit and Inga come from different backgrounds. Selamawit felt safe because she had experience with giving birth. Inga talked to her mother about giving birth. Both women had heard that, in most European countries, pregnant women have the right to antenatal care. This means that they will get help during their pregnancies. Selamawit made an appointment with her doctor as soon as she realised she was pregnant. Selamawit's husband drove her to the doctor. The doctor did some tests and found out that Selamawit had a kind of diabetes that some pregnant women get. She had to eat healthy food and exercise. Selamawit was glad she went to the doctor early, before she and her baby became ill. When Inga's neighbour heard that she was trying to have a baby, the neighbour told her to see a doctor as soon as she was pregnant. That way she could make sure that she and her baby were healthy. The doctor told her to take folic acid, a vitamin that is important for pregnant women. Inga and her doctor agreed that she would meet a midwife for regular check-ups during her pregnancy. The midwife gave her advice on food and rest, and information on how to keep herself and her baby safe and well. Both women gave birth to healthy babies. Selamawit had another son, while Inga had a daughter. Their husbands were very proud, and they told everyone they knew about their strong wives and healthy children.

The rains have stopped. But winter is not here yet. This season is called Autumn. It is called Sharat Ritu in Sanskrit. Aksheeee! I have a cold. The change in the weather seems to make so many people ill. Granny says all children will be well before Dasara. There are so many festivals during this season. Manu has plucked leaves from my mango tree to make a 'Toranam' to put on our front door. I think our toranam is the best in the whole world! The sky is so blue now. And there are bright, white clouds that look like cotton balls. Everything seems so calm. Tonight, we are going to celebrate Sharat Poornima. The festival is also called Khojagiri.The full moon will make everything around us look like silver. We will stay awake all night. We will drink hot kheer made of white things like coconut, rice and milk. Meera is celebrating Onam today. It is a festival of joy. Her family has made a beautiful Pookalam, a rangoli using flowers. She says this is the time of the year when the crops have been cut and there is enough grain for everyone. It is a happy time.It is the time when the famous boat races of Kerala are held. What a fun! I feel like celebrating too. Dasara holidays are here. In Tamil Nadu, people love to set up a Navaratri Golu, which is a display of dolls on three to nine steps. During this festive season, Manu and I are going to start learning Indian classical music. I want to play the Mrudangam.Mru-dan-gam! Dham! Dham! Dham!Manu wants to learn to play the flute. And Amma wants to learn to ride the scooter! Deepavali will also come soon. In the dark, moonless night, all the houses will look so pretty when they are lit up with diyas and candles. Some people put electric lights that go on and off! I like to burst crackers too. But our teacher says that crackers are bad for the air. He says if we don't take care of the water, air and land, then the seasons will all change after some years. I wonder how that will happen! It is getting colder. This season just after Sharat Ritu is called Hemant Ritu in Sanskrit, says granny. It is a short season in India. Winter will be here soon.

When I was five years old, myuncle gave me a wonderfulpresent.It was a three-week-old puppy!The day my uncle brought thepuppy home, I was very happy.I knew I had a friend. After putting him down, myuncle turned to me and asked,"What name will you give him?"I looked at my puppy, and said,"Coco."My uncle was surprised.He asked, "Why do you call himCoco?"I said, "Because he looks likecocoa." I asked my uncle if Coco was born alone.My uncle said that there was another puppy,exactly like Coco.I went to see Coco's brother. When Coco saw his brother, hewas very excited.The two of them put their headstogether as if they were talking. I asked my uncle if I could keepboth Coco and his brother."All right," he said. "But youmust look after them."So every evening, I played withthem and took them forexercise. A few months later, Coco andhis brother were big, strong andhealthy.They were too big for me tolook after on my own. So I asked my uncle to takeback Coco's brother.But when Coco was left alone,he looked very sad.It felt as if he was asking me,"Why did you do that?" He stopped playing.Sometimes he refused to go fora walk with me.There were times when Cocoate very little.I was worried.I asked myself, "What can I doto help Coco?" Then one day my uncle came to visit.When I heard his voice, I rushed out of the house.Before I could see him, I heard the barking of dogs. Behind the kitchen, dancinghappily before me were Cocoand his brother! I was so happy that I did notknow who to hug first, Coco ormy uncle.I knew Coco would go back tohis old self now that his brotherwas back.We would go running in thefields again!

I can see big, black clouds in the sky and I can hear BADABOOM, the roll of thunder.The monsoon is here. It is called Varsha Ritu in Sanskrit. I love the smell of wet earth. After a long hot summer, the soil also loves the first raindrops I think. The rain makes beautiful patterns on the ground. My uncle has kept big drums in some places to save rain water. The rain water from the terrace comes and falls into these drums. So I call them waterfalls! Aunty likes to sing aloud when it starts raining. Shubha aunty who lives in Varanasi, taught me some lovely songs called ‘Kajari'.Do you know, Miyan Tansen, a very famous singer in the court of Emperor Akbar, could bring the rain down from the skies just by singing a song in raag ‘Miyan ki Malhar!'I am going to start learning Indian classical music too. I got wet in the rain when I came running back from school, but it was fun. I saw peacocks dancing in the fields near our house. They never seem to get wet!I cannot wait to sit on the swing that Manu has put up on the big tree, and feel the cool rainy breeze on my face. I can smell the pakodas being fried in the kitchen. Can I be greedy and eat some corn too? Amma makes us drink hot milk.Yesterday, she had made spicy puffed rice. And tomorrow, she says she will make puris! All the trees and plants will look green and happy. Just like the green dupatta that Hari bhaiya sent for me from Jaipur. He said it is called a ‘dhaani chunariya.'‘Dhaani' means the fresh green colour of paddy saplings. Grandpa told me that good rain means the farmers will get a good crop. We all wait for the rains, but farmers worship the rain gods. My mango tree has grown very tall during the monsoon season. I do not have to water it at all! And when the wind blew hard last month, my tree stood firm. When will my mango tree be as big as this one?

I am Goloo the circle.Everyone likes me.You can find meeverywhere, any time! The sun looks like me.When it's too hot,you need an umbrella which alsolooks like half of me. At night, the moonlooks like me with a smile.I look at it throughthe owl's round eyes. Huge watermelons, apples, oranges, tomatoes,even the tiny lemons - all look like me... and mithai!Juicy rasgullas, syrupy gulabjamuns, lovely laddus...are among the many sweets that look like me. Animals want me to decorate them.The cheetah, the chital deer,have me all over their skin.I'm there on ladybirds and butterflies too! In the playground,I'm there as a ball,a hoopla ring andmany other joyful games! Why, your trucks,aeroplanes, cars, cycles,would not be able to move...if it weren't for me. And yet there is one place where I am not welcome.On your report card! Sorry friends!I also feel sad when that happens.You will have to work hard to change that!

It is my first day at school.Mummy is holding my hand and walking with me.“I am grown up now,” I say. “Let go, let go!”Mummy holds my hand very tight. There are many children near the school.They come by bus. They come by car.They come by rickshaw. They cycle.They walk, like me. We reach the gate. Mummy lets go of my hand.She stays at the gate. I have to go inside alone.There are many new faces all around me. I take one step. I take another step. I look back. Mummy gets smaller as I walk away. Will she disappear?I run back to her. I don't feel so grown up. I hold her hand.“Don't go away,” I say. Everyone is inside now. I am the only one outside. The teacher comes out. She smiles at me. I smile back.Mummy says, "Rani, I will be here when you come out."I let go of her hand. She waves to me. I run inside. Mummy will be there after school!

Once upon time, a lionwanted to come out ofthe bush and have ahuman as a friend. And so the lion and theman became friends. They ate together andshared meat. The lionrealised that the manwas a meat lover. Itbegan to fear that theman would kill it. The lion feared thatperhaps the man mightspear it with his spears.The man feared thatthe lion might eat himat night when he slept. One night the mandreamed that the lionwas moving towardshim slowly, trying to eathim. The man took up hisspear, shouting, "If youwant to eat me, then Iwill spear you." The lionwoke up and ran out, "Isaid this man will oneday kill me." From that day, the lionand the man were nolonger friends. The lionwill kill a humanwhenever it finds one.And humans will kill alion if they can. That is why it is said: if someone wantsfriendship with you, you should first knowabout that person's character. You shouldknow if you can be together peacefully.

Shanti and Arun were good friends. They had so much fun together.They shared secrets in class. They ran races on the way home.She was always cheerful. One day, Shanti came into the classroom slowly. Her head was bent. She looked sad. “Did someone scold you?” asked Arun.Shanti shook her head. She sat down and did not look up. She did not answer ‘Present!' when Sona Miss called her name. Sona Miss called again, louder this time, “Shanti Kumar!” Shanti raised her hand. “Do you have a sore throat?” her teacher asked her. Shanti shook her head.Her cheeks were red and it looked like she had a fever.“Are you feeling okay?” Sona Miss asked.Shanti nodded, still not daring to look up. “Why does Shanti look so sad?”“Is your little brother okay?”“Is your puppy okay?”“Is your grandmother okay?”Shanti kept nodding her head to each of her friends. But she did not look up. Arun wanted to make her smile. He had an idea! He took out something from his bag.As he ran to show it to Shanti, it slipped out of his hands. Shanti saw something flying towards her and she grabbed it. It was a BIG, green, rubber frog!Shanti's eyes flew open. Then she opened her mouth to laugh.THEN Arun and her friends saw why she had not smiled or talked all day!Four of her front teeth had gone missing!

Once upon a time, a long timeago, there was a time of greathunger. A very smart hyenapretended he was so sick hecouldn't even go out. Lots of animals went to visit himin his home to comfort him. Butnone of them ever came out! One beautiful afternoon, therabbit arrived. He thought hewould like to visit the hyenatoo. He almost went into thehyena's cave. But suddenly hestopped, and saw there wereonly tracks of animals going in,and none coming out. So he stayed outside andshouted into it, "How are you?Are you healthy, my bestfriend? Are you getting better?" The hyena answered, "Don'tworry, my friend. Come in andgive me some lovely company!" "Oh, I'm not sure if I should come in. Really, I don't havetime right now,and you have so many visitors . . .""No, no, rabbit, everything is alright. There's nobody inhere. It's no goodfor me to stay here all sick and alone." "You are lying! I can see thefootprints of animals that havegone in but haven't come out . .." The hyena went quiet and therabbit said, "Good-bye, myfriend, I think I will visit youanother day." And the rabbit ran far awayfrom that place!

My village had many problems.We made a long line to fetch water from one tap. We waited for food donated by others. We locked our houses early because of thieves. Many children dropped out of school. Young girls worked as maids in other villages. Young boys roamed around the village while others worked on people's farms. When the wind blew, waste paper hung on trees and fences. People were cut by broken glass that was thrown carelessly. Then one day, the tap dried up and our containers were empty. My father walked from house to house asking people to attend a village meeting. People gathered under a big tree and listened. My father stood up and said, "We need to work together to solve our problems." Eight-year-old Juma, sitting on a tree trunk shouted, "I can help with cleaning up." One woman said, "The women can join me to grow food." Another man stood up and said, "The men will dig a well." We all shouted with one voice, "We must change our lives."From that day we worked together to solve our problems.

Edson was born in Angola, just after the country became independent. He was a very tall boy. Because of his height he stood out. The people who were giving weapons to children to fight as soldiers in the civil war wanted boys like him. His mother was afraid they would take him, so she decided to send him to live in Portugal with an aunt. She thought he would be safe there. It was very difficult to begin with, as Edson missed the warm weather, the traditional food and, most of all, his mother's hugs and kisses. He did not speak Portuguese well and found it very hard to follow his classes and the conversations of his classmates. He wondered if it was a good idea to come to Portugal after all. One day a teacher noticed how good he was at basketball. He joined a basketball team and was very successful. He became popular at school and made friends. He also became more confident. Now that he is an adult, Edson trains refugee children and others at risk of being excluded from society. Once, his height put him in danger of becoming a child soldier. Now, his height gives him strength to help others feel safe.

My youngest uncle is getting married.The wedding is in the village.We are all going to the wedding.We are going by train. We are the first to come to the station.My father, my mother, my brother and I. We have one big bag and two small bags.And we have a red water bottle. The train has not yet come.Many people are coming.They are all waiting for the train.Where is the rest of the family? There! I can see my grandfather.He is walking slowly.He is looking for us.My grandmother is behind him. I am thirsty. Can I have a cold drink?My brother is hungry. He wants to eat chips. "Wait," says my mother. "We are not even on the train. I have sweets if you are hungry. I have water if you are thirsty. But wait till the train comes." My grandfather has a very small bag.He also has a stick.My grandmother's bag is big.I think there are many good things to eat in it. My fat aunt has arrived. Her thin husband is here too.Their suitcase is full of clothes. They both like to dress up. There is a big noise. The train is coming. The train is coming!Everyone wants to get in. Where is the young man, who is getting married? We are all ready. But where is he?My father goes to look for my uncle. My grandfather looks too. My mother looks worried. But my grandmother is smiling."There he is!" grandmother says.My uncle is running towards us. “So sorry, so sorry,” he says.We all get on the train. The train leaves the station.

One day the rabbitfound a snail. He said tothe snail, "You can'trun! All you know ishow to crawl on theground." The snail said, "Comeon Sunday and you willsee." The snail prepared ahundred bits of paperand wrote the samemessage on them. The snail handed outthe papers to hisfriends and said, "Whenthe rabbit comes herecalling me, one of youmust say: I am thesnail." Then the snail told hisfriends to hide behindthe bushes where therabbit and the snailwere to pass. On Sunday, the rabbitarrived and found thesnail.The rabbit said, "Let´shave a race.But I will win." Snails were lined up onthe racing track so thateach time the rabbitpassed, a snail wouldshout, 'I am a snail...'During the race, therabbit called out,"Snail! Snail!" One of the snails hiddenbehind the bushesanswered, "I am thesnail, I am the snail." Finally, the rabbit wasvery tired.He lay down, saying,"Snail, I am so tired;you have won." So the snail wonbecause of hiscleverness!

Yulia, her husband, and their little daughter lived in a small, quiet village in Ukraine. Yulia loved being woken every morning by the sound of birds. She never thought she would live far away from home, or not be woken up by the sound of birds in the morning. Her husband was always complaining about not having enough money and he began drinking heavily. They decided to try their luck in Portugal. Maybe there they could earn more money to build a house and make a better future for their family. Yulia adapted well to her new home, and she started working as a cleaner. Her clients really appreciated her hard work and her polite attitude. Her husband, on the other hand, felt more and more left out. Because of his drinking problem, employers did not trust him and would not give him work. One day he started yelling at Yulia. Then, he started pushing her. The shouting and beatings got worse, especially when he was drunk. Yulia was afraid for herself and her daughter, but she had no idea what she could do. When Yulia finally had to go to the emergency room in the hospital with a broken arm, they told her that domestic violence was a huge problem in Portugal. They also said that it was a crime and she should report it to the police. Yulia was exhausted and did not want her little daughter to grow up in a home where she witnessed violence every day. Yulia realised that the signs of abuse had been there all along, even if it took many different forms. Yulia went to a women's shelter, where she felt safer than she had in a long time. She had not felt like that since she was woken up by the sound of birds in the morning.

School is over.Children are leaving.Teachers are leaving.Everyone is going home. I come out of the gate.I am in a hurry.I do not have time to play.I do not have time to talk.I want to get home fast. I walk down the lane.It is a narrow lane.I can see crowds up ahead.There is a big road there. The big road has lots of traffic.Cars, trucks and cycles, motorcycles, scooters and auto rickshaws.Some are going this way. Some are going that way.I know how to find the gap and run to the other side. I have reached the divider.There is traffic in front.There is traffic behind.I must be careful. I am on the other side.I almost crash into the chanawallah.He growls. I say, “Sorry,” and run along. I walk faster and faster.Now there are fish shops. Big fish, small fish, long fish, flat fish.Shiny fish, dull fish. So many fish in every shop. I walk faster and faster.Now there are fish shops. Big fish, small fish, long fish, flat fish.Shiny fish, dull fish, So many fish in every shop. Now I must run.Past the video shops, past the barber shop,past the cloth shop, past the pan shop.Running, running, running down the lane. Finally I reach home.Oh good! I am not late.My father goes to work in the afternoon.He has not left as yet. His cycle is still here. My father comes outside, my mother is behind him.I give my father a big hug. My father gives me a big hug.Then he goes to work. Now there is no hurry. I have lots of time.

I thought Norwegian men were the best men in the world, but that is not true! Before I met the man who became my husband, I worked in a factory in Bangkok, and he lived in Pattaya. We met through the Internet and eventually became a couple. After a while we decided to get married. I came from a poor family, so having a foreign husband who could take care of my family was part of my reason for marrying him. We moved to Norway, and I started going to school to learn Norwegian. It was a difficult time. I did not have a driver's licence, and my husband had to drive me to school, wait for me, and drive back. It was an hour each way. After a while we moved closer, but he still insisted on driving me to school. He did not want me to walk alone. I have hardly had any money since I came to Norway. Once, my husband gave me money for lunch, but since I had so little money, I kept it. My friends at school want to help me to get a job, but my husband says I cannot. He does not think working as a cleaner is appropriate for me. Instead he had another job for me -- building a garage. He was the boss and I did everything. He could not do much because he was ill. He did not give me any of the money he made from building the garage. One day he said he was bored when he was home alone, so he decided we should get a dog. I did not want a dog as I was tired after school and I had homework to do. He said he would walk the dog every day, but in the end I had to take care of both the dog and my old husband. I do not know what the future will bring. My plan is to go to another school, but my husband does not want me to do that. He is planning to move further away to make it difficult for me. I want to resist, but I do not know how. It is not as easy to live in a foreign country with an old man as a husband as I thought it would be.

I am Timmy.This is my friend, Pepe, the puppy. I like to tease Pepe.I tell him I am better than him.He does not like it. “Look, I have a nose!” I say.“Woof,” says Pepe. That means he has a nose too. “Look, I have ears!” I say.“Woof,” says Pepe. That means he has ears too. “Look, I have eyes!” I say.“Woof,” says Pepe. That means he has eyes too. “Look, I can dance on my legs!” I say.“Woof, woof, woof,” says Pepe. That means he has legs too. “Look, I have a tongue!” I say.“Woof,” says Pepe. That means he has a tongue too. “I can think!” I say.“Wooooooof,” says Pepe. That means he can think better. “Look I have hands!” I say.“Grrrrrr...” Pepe says, and turns to show his little tail.That means he has a tail and I don't have one. But I love Pepe, the puppy and he loves me too. In the picture above find:* Eyes* Hands* Nose* Legs* Tongue* Ears

Swoosh came the wind. A sheet of paper floated in.Manju picked it up and sat down to draw the sun." Oh, this looks horrible! she said. Manju crumpled the paper and threw it out of the window. The paper fell on Wasim's head. “Ah, a ball!” he said happily. Wasim threw the crumpled paper ball up into the air and watched it come down. He threw it higher, and it came down faster. Wasim aimed the paper ball at Syeda, his sister.“Got you!” he shouted with glee. Syeda picked up the crumpled paper.She stuck a pencil into it and said, “Would you like this lollipop? When I am big, I am going to sell many kinds of lollipops in my sweet shop.” Just then, Bittu came in. “May I have the lollipop please?” he asked.He pretended to eat the sweet and then rolled up the crumpled paper.“Testing, testing, mike testing, one, two, three!” he said. “Now I am going to sing you a song.” Bittu finished singing a film song very loudly.Manju took the crumpled paper from Bittus hands.She smoothened the paper and made a boat. “Bittu, the famous singer will sail all around the world inthis big ship!”“May I come with you too?” asked Wasim. Wasim picked up the boat. Very carefully, he smoothened the paper.Then he folded it like a handkerchief. He cut out a corner. Then Wasim opened the paper. “Look here, all of you! Smile please!” he said as he held up the paper with a hole in the centre.Syeda, Bittu and Manju smiled. Then they grinned. Soon they were giggling. Wasim crumpled his paper camera. Just then, Anil came along with his donkey.He picked up Manju's pencil and drew lines around the hole in the paper. “That's the best sun I have ever seen!” said Manju. Anil's donkey grabbed the paper sun from Manju's hand and gobbled it up fast. He burped loudly. Then the donkey had a very strange look on his face.Now who can tell if it was because he had eaten very fast without chewing well, or if it was because he had eaten up the sun?

Atabo and Akiru went tocollect water at theriver. On their way backhome they rested on abig rock. Atabo tried to stand upto continue home butwas stuck to the rock. Akiru ran home to callmother. When mother arrived atthe rock, she foundAtabo truly stuck. "I will make a fencearound the rock toprotect you from wildanimals," mother saidto Atabo. So, she made a fencewith only one doorwhich she used to getinside.Then mother said to Atabo, "When I come tofeed you I will sing a song for you to openthe door."This is the song she sang:"lka koku nachirima,Bala ekena,Ke...ke...i...ya.Tangarae totokonia kainak ngakon kile." And mother also said, "Never open the doorto a stranger."So whenever mother came she sang thesong, the door opened and she gave Atabofood.But Hyena was hidingand watching andlistening when mothercame to feed Atabo. Hyena tried to copy thesong. He practised andpractised. The other animals toldHyena to swallow a flyfrom the river so thathe could sing better.He swallowed a fly fromthe river and he cameto sing. But the door didnot open. He swallowed a fly fromthe plains and he cameto sing. But the door didnot open.Finally he swallowed afly from the far awayplains. He came to sing, andthe door opened.Hyena ate Atabo. When mother cameagain, she sang, andsang, and sang. Butnothing happened. Mother called ameeting of all theanimals and lit a verybig fire."The animal that ateAtabo will fall into thefire and burn," she said. All the animals jumpedsafely over the fire untilthe fox had a turn. Fox jumped and the firecaught his tail.He cried in pain. Last of all came thehyena.He jumped and fell inthe fire. Then the animals sanganother song:"Ata kalio,Anikanyamit ikon koku,Achakakin nakim na,Chi...gi...gir."

Grandma and Grandpa take Veeru to see Jumbo-Bumbo Circus.“This is going to be fun!” he tells them. Veeru is happy to see the tightrope walkers, the acrobats, the jugglers, and the funny red-nosed clown.“Wow!” says Veeru, again and again. That night Veeru dreams of having his own circus. Next morning he invites Mummy, Daddy, Grandma and Grandpa to ‘Veeru Circus'. Veeru the tightrope walker, plans to walk on a high rope.“This might be unsafe Veeru. You may fall down,” warns Mummy. So Veeru the tightrope walker, keeps the rope on the ground and walks on the rope. Everyone claps."Thank you, thank you," he says. Veeru the acrobat, plans to jump through a fire-lit ring.“This might be unsafe Veeru. You may burn yourself,” warns Daddy.So Veeru the acrobat takes a hula hoop and jumps through it. Everyone claps.“Thanks, thanks,” he says. Veeru the juggler, plans to juggle six balls. “This might be unsafe Veeru. The balls may fall on your head,” warns Grandpa.So Veeru the juggler, juggles one big laddoo. The laddoo lands inside his mouth. Everyone claps.“Thmmm you very mmmm!” he mumbles, munching the laddoo. Veeru the ring master, plans to have a caged lion for the trick. He has seen pictures of a circus lion in a book. “It is wrong to make a wild animal do tricks for us. The lion might get angry,” warns Grandma.So Veeru the ring master shakes hands with his pet dog Bozo.“Thanks Bozo,” says Veeru. Veeru the red-nosed clown, shakes his bottom. But 'PLOP' his pants fall down. Everyone laughs. “You were so funny,” Grandma tells Veeru.“What a wonderful circus we have seen!” say Mummy, Daddy, Grandpa and Grandma in chorus.

Anu loves to look at things,big things and small.Houses on hills,ants on a wall. Things in the kitchen,things on the shelf.Things in the garden,things on herself. Anu sees patternsand shapes everywhere,nothing at all can escape her stare! Spots on a ladybird,circles in trees,shapes made by people,shapes made by bees. Lines on a leaf, justlike lines on her hand.The marks of her feetin wet seaside sand. Waves in the water,waves in her hair.Mushrooms on treetrunks, birds in the air. Words in a book thatcan take her to places,full of new colours,new stories, new faces. Things of the colour thatshe loves best - RED!The three wiggly hairs onher brother Boo's head. Sprinkles on the cakeDaddy baked today,like the stars that twinkleat her from far away. Rabbits in cloudsfloating up in the sky.Elephants in shadows -come, give it a try! Anu is happy with thethings that she sees.Do you also see whatlittle Anu sees?

There was a big dark jungle.There were lots of trees and a narrow path. Many animals and birds lived here. One day, all the animals came together.“Did you hear?” asked Tota, the parrot.“Yes,” said Hirni, the deer.“What?” asked Darpok, the rabbit.“We have a school in the jungle,”answered Zhoola, the monkey.Mota, the elephant wondered, “Hmph?”Lamboo, the giraffe said, “Oh, good!”Dheema, the snail squealed, “Hurry, let's go!” Tota, the parrot flew ahead.Zhoola, the monkey jumped from tree to tree. Poorakha, the python slithered fast.“Here!” shouted Tota. “Can you read?”“It is upside down, I think,” said Zhoolahanging by the branch.Poorakha concluded, “Hisssss. No one can read.” Soon, all the other friends joined them.Lamboo looked over the tree. “No one here,” he said.Zhoola repeated, “No one here.”Tota proposed, “Look carefully!”Pilloo, the little bear declared, “I found a room!” “I found a swing,” announced Dheema.“What are these blocks?” Darpok wanted to know.“What is this?” was Zhoola's question.Poorakha explained, “I believe, this is a pencil.” Mota and Lamboo found a classroom.They called the others, “Look, what is this?”Everyone came with school bags.They began shouting, “Teacher! Teacher!Where is our teacher?”No one knew. Then they heard a roar.They heard a loud roar.They heard a louder roar.Poorakha was worried. Dheema was scared. Tota hid behind the board. Lamboo and Zhoola were puzzled.Who is this? “Hup!” said Zhoola the monkey. No one spoke. Who is this?“Hup!” said Zhoola the monkey.No one spoke.They all looked at the teacher. Up and down carefully.Then they looked at one another.The teacher turned to write on the black board. “Jump,” said Zhoola.“Fly!” said Tota.Thump, thump, thump ran Mota.“Run, run, run fast,” screamed Dheema.“Bhagoooo,” they all shouted together.When the teacher turned... there was no one in the class.

This is my school. It is called the balwadi. My brother Mannu and I go to the balwadi.It is a small school for little children like us. We leave our shoes and slippers by the door.Everyone puts their shoes or slippers in a line.It looks good that way. We leave our tiffin boxes near the wall.Some boxes are big. Others are small.Water bottles are hung on the wall.The bottles are of different colours. Red, blue, green, yellow. I like to count. Mannu plays with blocks and puts different shapes together. He likes to play with beads. I like the cards with dots.Our teacher says playing with these toys is good for the brain. We read books. Some books have pictures.The teacher helps us to learn the letters. She says I will read soon because I can recognize all the letters. I can also read sentences.She does not know it. Now it is time for stories. Our teacher has puppets.The teacher uses the puppets to tell us stories.The puppets speak in a funny voice. My friends think that the puppets can speak. They are surprised.But I am not. Puppets do not talk.I know that it is the teacher who speaks in a funny voice for them. It is now time to play. The school has a tub with some play dough. Mannu likes to make shapes out of the dough. I like to make fruits, toys and other things.At 4 o'clock, the school bell rings. My mother comes to take us home. I hug her first. Mannu does not like that. He complains. I have fun at school. But going home is more fun.

When Neymar arrivedin Africa he landed inthe capital city ofNigeria. The Nigerianstold him to demonstratethe skill of passing theball using the instep. From Nigeria, he movedto Ghana todemonstrate passingthe ball using the insideof the foot. This madeall the people in Ghanavery happy. While in Ghana,Neymar received aninvitation from SouthAfrica to demonstratetrapping the ball usingthe front of the foot. From South Africa, hemoved to Chad. In Chadhe demonstratedtrapping the ball usingthe side of the foot. When Neymar reachedDR Congo, he shook thecountry with the skill oftrapping the ball usingthe thigh. The Ugandans whowatched Neymar in theCongo decided to invitehim to demonstrate theskill of tackling. This news then spreadall over East Africa. TheKenyans welcomedNeymar to demonstratepunching in goalkeeping. The same week theTanzanians called forNeymar to demonstratethe skill of heading inpassing the ball. He later moved toRwanda to demonstratethe skill of passing theball using the outside ofthe foot. After Rwanda, Neymarconcluded his Africantrip in South Sudan,where he demonstratedthe skill of punting ingoal keeping.

Long long ago when the earth was new,great mountains covered the world like ablanket, and tall trees spiked the sky. In this world, there was a deep dark pool, silentand cold. At the bottom of this pool weretwo snakes.One had thick stronglypatterned coils, and the otherwas smaller and more delicate. Then one day, there was a great storm.A flash of lightning pierced right to the bottomof the pool.The waters parted for a moment.The snakes saw the earth above, full of coloursand shapes and feathered creatures.When the waters closed again, the snakescould not forget the beauty they had seen. "We cannot stay in this dark cold pool any longer," they said to each other."Let us go up and see the earth above.""How will we live on earth?" said the smaller snake."Will we crawl on our bellies?" "The birds of the air will not laugh at us forbeing so low," said her friend."We will not crawl, we will walk!"Very slowly the snakes uncoiled themselves.Close together they began to swim up, up, tothe light above. And as they reached the surface of the water,a strange thing happened.The tips of their tails split into two.They grew limbs with feet and toes.From just beneath their heads grew two armswith hands and fingers. They were no longer snakes, but Man and Woman. "We will make our home in thehills," said Woman. "Eachmorning we will see the sun riseand feel it warm on our backs.""We will look after the grassand the trees," said Man. "Andbe friends with Bird and Beast." "Come," said First Man."I will," said First Woman.And they walked out together into their new world.

Once upon a time there was ahungry jackal. He was walkingaround the bush looking forfood. He came upon a big orchard offresh ripe grapes. He spotted abunch of grapes hanging from ahigh branch. "Those look really delicious," hethought to himself. He took afew steps back so that he couldmake his highest jump. The grapes were too high.Jackal fell on his back withoutgetting to the grapes. Jackal got up and went furtherback from his starting spot. Thistime he was planning to jumphigher. He almost got highenough but he fell harder on hisback. He tried again and again, butcouldn't get to the grapes. Hekept falling until his back wasvery sore. Finally, he gave up and walkedaway. Jackal was not happy at all. Hestopped, looked back at thegrapes and thought, "Thosegrapes look really sour anyway."He carried on walking. He washungrier than before. Kwasuka sukela kwakukhona u jakalasi owayelambile. Waye hamba ehlathini efunana nokudla. Wase uhlangana nesihlahla esasiphethe imvini ehlaza. Wase uyazibona lezo mvini ezazilengeleya esihlahleni. "zibukeka zimnandi," wakhuluma yedwa. Wase ubuyela emuva kancane, ukuze akwazi ukuzifikelela. Izimvini zazi phezulu. Ujakalasi wase uyawa wawela phezu komhlane wakhe engazitholanga izimvini. Ujakalasi wase uyasukuma ubuyela emuva kunalapha wayeme khna. Kulesi sikathi waye hlose ukugcumela phezulu. Cishe wafika phezulu kepha wase uyawangamandla mashaya phansi. Wazama wazama, kodwa wayengafikeleli kulezo zimvini. Waqhubeka ehluleka, umgogodla wakhe wase ubuhlungu kakhulu. Ekugcineni, wase ulahla ithawela futhi wahamba. U jakalasi wayenga jabulanga neze. Wema, wabuka emuva kulezo mvini waqhabanga, "lezo mvini ezingavuthwanga ezihlaza. "Wakhala wase uyahamba. Futhi waye lambe ukudlula.

Once upon a time there was a little girl called Ramya. Ramya loved earrings. Everybody who gave her gifts, gave her earrings. She had red earrings, blue earrings, green earrings, and earrings of all the colours in the rainbow.Then, for Ramya's birthday, do you know what her Grandma got her? Grandma got Ramya really pretty diamond earrings that looked like stars! Ramya loved them. "Oh! Grandma, from where did you get such pretty diamond stars?" she asked. It was a starless night, and Grandma pointed to the sky. "See, there are no stars in the sky any longer. I plucked all the stars from the sky and chose the best ones for your earrings," Grandma replied. This made Ramya very sad."Twinkle, twinkle little star,How I wonder where you are?Up above the world so high,Please come back like diamonds in the sky!"Ramya sang unhappily. That night, Ramya took off her earrings and placed them carefully under her pillow. She hoped a fairy would return the stars to the sky.In the middle of the night, Ramya had a beautiful dream. In the dream, a pretty fairy came and told Ramya, “Don't worry Ramya, I have thousands of new stars for the sky!”Ramya woke up, and do you know what she saw? The night sky was filled with stars! Ramya's eyes sparkled as she put on her precious diamond star earrings again! Now, Ramya is so happy!

Once upon a time Jackal waswalking around the bush. He wasvery hungry. He saw the crow flyingabove the trees. Crow had a hugepiece of cheese in his mouth. "Hmmm...that cheese looksdelicious! I must find a way to getit," thought the jackal."Oh, I have a plan!" said Jackal tohimself while wiping his mouthquickly. He did not want Crow tonotice that he was hungry. Crow had been flying the wholemorning. He was tired. He decidedto sit on a branch of a tree. Thejackal sat down under the treewhere Crow was sitting. Jackal called with a huge smile,"Hello Crow! You're looking verygood today. Your feathers lookglossy and healthy. You must betaking very good care of yourself." Crow was very flattered to hear this.Crow always thought he was thestrongest and most beautiful of allthe other birds. "I hear you also have the mostbeautiful singing voice of all theother birds. Won't you sing a songfor me this morning?" Crow was so flattered that hestretched his wings and prepared tosing for the jackal. He pushed hischest out and let out a loud pitchedsound. As Crow started singing the cheesefell to the ground, right in front ofJackal. Crow stopped and lookeddown. Jackal grabbed the piece ofcheese and ate it. He ran into thebush and crow was left angry andhungry.

In Nakwiga Forest, there livedMonkey who was always lonely butfriendly.she had miscarriages most timesbaby. The pain of having miscarriagesmade Monkey jump up and down allthe time.She would jump from one tree toanother saying "Kau! Kau! Kau!" Monkey was always lonely.She could feel bad when saw othermonkeys playing with their babieson their backs. The lonely Monkey would sway thisway and that way.She would sway on this branch andon that branch!She would sway on this tree and theother tree!Days passed and Monkey criedmore and more. Then she conceived again and gavebirth.She decided to take the baby to thepath so that people passing bygoing to the river would see thebaby and wish it well. Monkey climbed down from thebranch and put the baby on thepath and climbed up and sat inbetween the branches to watchwhoever passed by .At that time, a hunter and his dogwere returning home.He saw the baby monkey lying onthe side of the path . The hunter carried the babymonkey to his home.When the hunter reached home, histhree boys were excited to meet anew friend, started playing with themonkey baby jumping up and downand fed it. The three boys sang:"Baby monkeyyou will not fall downwe love you baby monkey x2The monkey was thrown up and theboys couldn't allow it to fall down atall. As the three boys played with thebaby monkey, mother Monkey waswatching them.She was scared that her baby wouldfall down and break as the boyswere throwing it up . The kind woman came and sawyoung boys playing with the babymonkey.She said politely to them, "Becareful! Bring it here. You will breakit!" She took the baby monkey in herarms, and blessed it in Jesus' name. When the woman put the babymonkey down, mother Monkeycame running with a lot of joy.She held her baby to her chest andshe disappeared up the tree.

Rabbit was sleeping under anapple tree.An apple fell down from abranch. A voice said, "Run rabbit run!"She woke up quickly and ranaway with great speed. She met a chicken. "Why areyou running?" asked thechicken.Rabbit replied, "I don't know. Ijust heard something falling anda voice said, 'Run rabbit run!'" The chicken was frightened.She started running when sheheard what the rabbit said. They met a dog. Dog asked,"Why are you running?"Chicken said, "I don't know. Ijust heard what the rabbit said,and she doesn't know. Sheheard something falling and avoice said, 'Run rabbit run!'" The dog was surprised aboutwhat she heard. She startedrunning with Rabbit andChicken. They met a horse. The horseasked the dog, "Why are yourunning?"Dog said, "I don't know. I justheard what the chicken said,and she doesn't know. Sheheard what the rabbit said andshe doesn't know. She heardsomething falling and a voicesaid, 'Run rabbit run!'" The horse starts to run with theothers. They met a donkey. The donkeyasked, "Why are you running?"Horse replied, "I don't know. Ijust heard what the dog said,and he doesn't know. He heardwhat the chicken said and shedoesn't know. She heard whatthe rabbit said and she doesn'tknow. She heard somethingfalling and a voice said, 'Runrabbit run!'" So Donkey starts running too. They met a cow. The cow asked,"Why are you running?"Donkey replied, "I don't know. Ijust heard what the horse said,and she doesn't know. Sheheard what the dog said and hedoesn't know. He heard whatthe chicken said and shedoesn't know. She heard whatthe rabbit said and she doesn'tknow. She heard somethingfalling and a voice said, 'Runrabbit run!'" The cow is worried and starts torun as well. They met a cat. The cat asked,"Why are you running?"Cow replied, "I don't know. I justheard what the donkey said,and he doesn't know. He heardwhat the horse said and shedoesn't know. She heard whatthe dog said and he doesn'tknow. He heard what thechicken said and she doesn'tknow. She heard what therabbit said and she doesn'tknow. She heard somethingfalling and a voice said, 'Runrabbit run!'" The cat started running with theother animals. Then they met the boy ridingthe bicycle and he asked, "Whyare you running?''And the animals replied, "Wedon't know. We heard what therabbit said and she doesn'tknow. She heard somethingfalling and a voice said, 'Runrabbit run!'" The boy laughed and said, "Anapple feel off the tree becauseof the wind. I'm the one whosaid, 'Run rabbit run!'"

It was holiday time. Veena and Vinay were in the garden. There were tins of paint everywhere. There was white paint and red paint and green paint and blue paint and yellow paint. The painters were busy. One painter was on a ladder. Another was hanging from the roof on a swing. “Can we help?” asked Veena and Vinay. The painter gave each of them a brush. “Paint the inside of the gate,” he said to Veena.“Paint the outside of the gate,” he said to Vinay. They picked up two tins of paint and set to work. Veena painted one side of the gate. Vinay painted the other side of the gate. The paint fell on the ground.The paint fell on the wall.The paint fell on them. At last they finished. They wiped off the paint that had splashed on the ground. They wiped off the paint that had splashed on the wall. They wiped off the paint that had splashed on them. "I love my red gate!" said Veena. "I love my green gate!" said Vinay. “Oh, you have made a two-coloured gate!” cried the painter.“Let us keep it that way!” said Mother.

Once upon a time,Tortoise and Squirrel were very close friends.One day, Squirrel said to Tortoise, "My friend, we have no money, but market day is getting close.What business can we do to make some money?" Tortoise responded, "You know I can make clay plates. I want you to join me in making plates to sell." "Okay my friend, tomorrow evening I will join you to make the plates," Squirrel said. On the day of the market,Tortoise went to the marketplace.He saw two people fighting in the distance. He put down his clay plates and went to watch the fight. When Tortoise got there, he saw that it was his friend Squirrel fighting with Mole. Immediately, without finding out what caused the fight,Tortoise took a big stick and began to beat Mole. "Leave my friend alone!" shouted Tortoise. Mole turned to faceTortoise and bit him deeply on the nose. Tortoise's nose began to bleed. Tortoise had impatiently entered into the fight.Since that day, Tortoise has a crooked nose to remind him not to be so hasty.

It was a bright moonlit night. All the animals in Mangu's farm were sleeping.Except Tinku! “I am not sleepy, Ma,” murmured Tinku. But Ma did not hear him. She was fast asleep.He turned left, and he turned right. He lay on his tummy, and rolled on his back. But he could not sleep! So he set off into the night to see what he could find. Up in the sky, Tinku saw the moon, white and round, smiling down at him. He felt very happy.‘Night is beautiful,' thought Tinku. Far away on the top of a tree, there were some tiny lights. One spot of light flew down! “I'm a firefly,” said the spot of light. “I glow in the dark!”“Will you be my friend?” asked Tinku.“Yes, I will!” said the firefly. Something flew by and hung upside down on a tree.“What is your name, bird?” asked Tinku.“I am not a bird, I am a bat. I can see during the night!” said the bat.“Will you be my friend?” asked Tinku.“Yes, I will!” said the bat. A few leaves moved in the bushes. Someone was hiding! “Who are you?” asked Tinku.“I am a fox,” said the fox. “I go strolling out at night.”“Will you be my friend?” asked Tinku.“Yes, I will!” said the fox. Two shiny eyes looked at him from a tree. “Who are you?” asked Tinku.“I'm an owl,” said the owl. “I hunt for food during the night.”“Will you be my friend?” asked Tinku.“Yes, I will!” said the owl. “CHIRRRRRP! CHIRRRRRP!”“Who is here?” Tinku asked.“I'm a cricket,” said the cricket. “I chirp when it is dark.”“Will you be my friend?” asked Tinku.“Yes, I will!” said the cricket. Tinku and his friends jumped and tossed and rolled until Tinku yawned. “I am sleepy. I have to go home now,” said Tinku. He was happy that he had many new friends.Snuggling close to Ma, he said, “Night is not a lonely place, Ma. Night is full of wonderful beings.”“Yes!” replied Ma. “Your new friends are nocturnal, just like wild dogs.” “Nocturnal animals eat, play and work at night. They rest during the day. You must sleep now. Sleep will give you energy to play with your day-time friends tomorrow. Good night, little one!” she said, hugging him tight. The bright round moon shone all night long, spreading her calm light all around.And Tinku slept all through the night!

When Akai was a little girl, hermother used to put her to sleepon a beautiful mat.Akai's aunt made this specialmat from palm leaves. The mat had bright pink, blueand green colours.It was different from other matsthat Akai's mother had in thehut. The land around Akai's homewas very dry, hot and full ofstones.There were many scorpions,spiders and snakes too. But Akai was never in danger ofbeing bitten by thesedangerous creatures.Her mother said, "Her specialmat protects Akai from anyharm." Akai was a clever child.She discovered where thenearest shallow well was. She also knew where hergrandmother's manyatta waslocated.She often went to enjoydrinking camel milk with hergrandmother. One day, Akai was not so lucky.She left to go to hergrandmother's manyatta, butshe did not get there.She got lost in the hills.Akai was afraid. She sat under an edome treeand waited for help.Soon she fell asleep and had adream. This is how the dream went:She was lying on her specialmat.A woman who looked like hergrandmother was watching overher.The lady smiled and gave her abig bowl of camel milk.Just when Akai stretched outher hand to take the milk, shewoke up. Akai opened her eyes slowly.When she looked up, she saw asmall blue bird standing on abranch above her. When Akai got up, the smallblue bird flapped its wings andled the way for Akai.She followed the bird. Akai came to a place where thepath went in two differentdirections.The blue bird dropped a pieceof a mat that was like Akai'sown mat. Picking up the piece of mat,Akai saw footprints that sheknew were her mother's.Soon she saw the shallow wellfrom where they fetched water. Akai's family sang and dancedto welcome her home.They slaughtered a goat,roasted the meat andcelebrated their child's safereturn. Akai sat on her special mat andenjoyed eating a big piece ofroast meat.

It was the Annual Haircut Day for Sringeri Srinivas. Sringeri Srinivas left home as usual to go to the local barber. But the barber said, “Today, I have no time to cut such long hair!” Feeling sad, Sringeri Srinivas went back home to ask his wife for help. But his wife said, “Today, I have no time to cut such long hair!” Feeling a little angry, Sringeri Srinivas went to his friend, the tailor. But the tailor said, “Today, I have no time to cut such long hair!” Now a little worried, Sringeri Srinivas went to one more friend, the carpenter. But the carpenter said, “Today, I have no time to cut such long hair!” Poor Sringeri Srinivas. It seemed no one would cut his hair on this Annual Haircut Day. In tears, he walked off by himself past the village forest. He sat near a cave and cried loudly. “The day is nearly over. How can I keep my promise to cut my hair? Oh God, help me!” The tiger sleeping peacefully inside the cave was very disturbed by all the noise. He came out, roaring, waving his giant paws at Sringeri Srinivas. Poor Sringeri Srinivas was so scared, so scared, so scared that ... ... all the hair fell off his head! Sringeri Srinivas ran all the way back to the village.The tiger went back to sleep. Now, Sringeri Srinivas will not need a haircut for a very long time.

“Meenu, please get a glass of water for Manoj,” says Amma. Manoj Mama has come to take me to Ooty!“We will go by train, Meenu. It is cold in Ooty even during summer, as it is in the hills,” he says. Summer is the season between spring and monsoon. It is called Greeshma Ritu in Sanskrit. School has closed for the summer.My friends and I do not mind playing outside. But our parents do not like us to play in the hot sun. So we sit under the trees and eat fruits and tell stories. Yesterday was new year's day for my family. We call it Varsha Porappu in Tamil. Why are there so many new year's days in the same year?Grandma made raw mango panna. So sweet and tangy! Jasmit's mother made lassi. So cool and creamy! Last month, Farhan's aunty made falooda for their new year. So milky and sweet-smelling! Appa has gone to Delhi. He says it is very hot and dusty there. In earlier times, people put mats made of khus on windows and kept them wet to cool their homes. Appa wears dark glasses to shade his eyes. He told us that he had to drink lots of nimbu pani to replace the water in his body because you sweat a lot in the heat of Delhi. He says he will bring lovely Dussehri mangoes for us from Delhi. The summer brings heat and dust but it also brings mangoes! Do you remember the little sapling I planted in spring? It is my friend. It is growing up. It has seventeen leaves now. I water the little tree twice every day in summer. I think it is waiting for the rain.Will it bear a fruit for me next summer?

Bheema loves to sleep and just cannot get up early.Ramu, the washerman, scolds Bheema often. One day, Gauri, the cow, asked him, “Bheema, why are you so sad?”Bheema said, “I cannot get up early and Ramu shouts at me every day. Will you wake me up every morning, please?”“Yes, I will,” said Gauri. Early next morning, Gauri mooed loudly, but Bheema did not wake up. Coming back from the river in the evening, Bheema met Moti, the dog.“I can never get up in the morning on time. Will you wake me up?” Bheema asked Moti.“Yes, I will,” said Moti and the next morning he barked and barked but did Bheema wake up? No Sir! That evening Bheema met Cheenu, the rooster.He said to Cheenu, “You crow in the morning and everybody wakes up. Will you wake me up too?”Cheenu agreed. The next morning, Cheenu crowed long and loud, but Bheema did not wake up. The next evening, Bheema saw Kalu, the crow, cawing away happily.“Kalu, will you wake me up in the morning, please?” he asked.Kalu said, “Why not? I will caw and wake you up.”The next morning Kalu cawed all he could but Bheema did not wake up. Bheema was sad.The next morning, a fly came and sat on his nose.“Aaah...chhoooo... ahchhoo!” Bheema got up with a big sneeze. “Wow! I woke up. How did I wake up?” he asked in wonder.“I woke you up,” said the fly.“Will you wake me up like this early every morning?”“Sure,” said the fly. Bheema was happy. Now he would have no problem getting up early every morning!

I like playing with myfriend Chuma. Chuma and I like eachother.When we are sent, wego together. One day I was sent bymy grandmother to theshop to buy salt andcooking oil.I went with Chuma. On the way, we saw ourfriends playing football. I wanted to play the ballvery much.I said, "Ah! Football." I said to Chuma, "Let'sgo and ask them to letus play with them. I likeplaying football verymuch." Chuma replied, "Let usgo to the shop first thenwe can come to play." But I told Chuma, "Letus play first! If we gohome, grandmother willnot allow us." Our friends allowed usto play the ball withthem.I was the goal keeper. I worked hard to catchthe ball.My friends were notable to score any goals. The field was full ofsand.The goal posts weremade of two big stones. After the game, wewent to the shop but wehad lost the money.I started to cry.Chuma said, "Stopcrying. You wanted usto play before going tothe shop." We returned homewithout salt or cookingoil.We were very dirty andworried. Grandmother was veryannoyed when wereached home.The first question sheasked us was, "Wherewere you all this time?" She forgave us butwarned us, "Never go toplay again withoutpermission." We quickly went to feedthe ducks.Later on, we cleanedourselves.

A long time ago, three girls wentout to collect wood. It was a hot day so they went downto the river to swim.They played and splashed andswam in the water. Suddenly, they realised that it waslate.They hurried back to the village. When they were nearly home,Nozibele put her hand to her neck.She had forgotten her necklace!"Please come back with me!" shebegged her friends.But her friends said it was too late. So Nozibele went back to the riveralone.She found her necklace and hurriedhome.But she got lost in the dark. In the distance she saw lightcoming from a hut.She hurried towards it and knockedat the door. To her surprise, a dog opened thedoor and said, "What do you want?""I'm lost and I need a place tosleep," said Nozibele."Come in, or I'll bite you!" said thedog.So Nozibele went in. Then the dog said, "Cook for me!""But I've never cooked for a dogbefore," she answered."Cook, or I'll bite you!" said the dog.So Nozibele cooked some food forthe dog. Then the dog said, "Make the bedfor me!"Nozibele answered, "I've nevermade a bed for a dog.""Make the bed, or I'll bite you!" thedog said.So Nozibele made the bed. Every day she had to cook andsweep and wash for the dog.Then one day the dog said,"Nozibele, today I have to visitsome friends. Sweep the house,cook the food and wash my thingsbefore I come back." As soon as the dog had gone,Nozibele took three hairs from herhead.She put one hair under the bed, onebehind the door, and one in thekraal.Then she ran home as fast as shecould. When the dog came back, he lookedfor Nozibele."Nozibele, where are you?" heshouted."I'm here, under the bed," said thefirst hair."I'm here, behind the door," said thesecond hair."I'm here, in the kraal," said thethird hair. Then the dog knew that Nozibelehad tricked him.So he ran and ran all the way to thevillage.But Nozibele's brothers werewaiting there with big sticks.The dog turned and ran away andhas never been seen since.

On Sunday, Manu's parents got him a red raincoat.“Ma, may I wear it now?” asked Manu.“No, my dear, the rains are near, but just now the sky is clear,” said Ma. Monday was bright and sunny.“WILL it rain today, Mummy?” asked Manu.“No Manu, not today. If you wear your raincoat, you will look quite funny!” said Ma. On Tuesday, the sky was blue.“Ma, WHEN will my wish come true?” asked Manu.“Not today, my dear, there is just one white cloud in the sky!” said Ma. Wednesday was hot.“Ma, WHY doesn't it rain?” asked Manu.“Son, I think it will rain very soon. Maybe even before it is noon,” said Ma. On Thursday Manu went on a picnic. “Ma, WHAT if it rains? Shall I take the raincoat with me?” asked Manu.“No my dear, it will not rain today. The little white clouds are too high in the sky,” said Ma. Friday was cloudy.“Ma, will it rain today?” asked Manu loudly.“It might, my dear. There are some dark clouds low down in the sky,” said Ma. Saturday began with a bang!Badaboom!"Ma, is that thunder I hear? Will it rain very soon?" asked Manu. And then at last, it started raining!“Oh, it's raining, it's raining,” sang Manu, running out. “But Manu,” called Ma, running after him, “you forgot your raincoat!”

I see a blue butterfly waving goodbye I see a yellow bee drinking a cup of tea I see a red fish in a dish I see a green frog playing with a puppy dog I see an orange duckwishing me good luck I see a violet flowerdancing with a caterpillar I see a grey and black catwearing an orange hat I see a grey and brown mousehiding in a pink house I see a red and black foxwearing purple socks I see a green grasshopper reading ablack and white newspaper I see a black and purple goatsailing in a red boat I see a green and brown crocodilegiving me a big smile I see a black and blue snakeeating a slice of cake I see a red and yellow henwriting with a pen I see a black and orange tigerstanding in the water I see with my two black eyesall the colours as they fly

Once long ago, the birds had ameeting. They wanted a king. The Eagle wanted to be king.The other birds said, "Your callis too sad to be king".The Ostrich wanted to be king.The other birds said, "You can'tfly". Peacock wanted to be king. Theother birds said, "You are tooproud. You cannot be king".Owl wanted to be king. Theother birds said, "You sleepduring the day.You cannot beking". And so they did not get too far.Then one bird said, "Who canfly the highest? That bird shouldbe king".All the birds flew up up up intothe sky. Goose flew over the highestmountains in the world.Eagle flew into the blue abovethe mountains.But Vulture flew withoutstopping, up towards the sun. High above them, the birdsheard Vulture cry, "I am thehighest, I am king!" Vulture heard a tiny voice,"Tink, tink, tink! I am thehighest, I am king." It wasNcede, the Neddicky, thesmallest bird of all!He had held onto the feathersof Vulture as he flew up into thesky! So Vulture flew down with thelittle bird still under his wing.The other birds were cross withNcede. They waited for him,ready to pluck out all hisfeathers But the quick little bird saw howangry they were, and flew intoan empty snake hole. The birds told Owl to wait nearthe hole and catch him when hecomes out.So Owl sat in front of the hole. But the sun was warm and soonOwl was fast asleep.The little bird peeped out, sawthat Owl was asleep, and z-zip,away he went. Owl was very ashamed that hehad let the little bird escape.Now he only hunts at night.In the day, he sleeps, awayfrom the sight of the otherbirds.

“What's wrong Grandpa, why are you not reading the newspaper?”asked Gulli one morning.“Oh dear, I broke my reading glasses, and I can't read anything without them,”said Grandpa. “Ah, don't you worry, Grandpa. Let me go and get my box of things.”Gulli ran out fast, and came back with his little brown box. Clink, clonk, dadum-dum. What has he found at last?A shining bright magnifying glass!If you care to look through it, everything will look better and bigger. "Thank you, this is just fine, now I can read each and every line," said Grandpa. “What is wrong, Mangal Chacha?” asked Gulli one Sunday.“I have to pour oil from this pack, but the bottle's neck is so small. I am sure I will make a complete mess in my kitchen,” said Mangal Chacha.“Ah, don't worry, let me find you something really fast,” said Gulli. Clink, clonk, dadum-dum, let's see what Gulli has found this time! A funnel with a big, wide mouth! Pour anything from the top, and see how it comes down so neatly, drop by drop!"Here, Mangal Chacha, use this one, the kitchen will be clean and cooking will be fun." "Thank you Gulli, for helping me out!" “What are you looking for, Grandma?” asked Gulli.“Oh, I was mending Grandpa's monkey cap, and the needle just fell off from my lap!” said Grandma.“You just sit here on the chair that rocks, while I go find something from my little brown box!” said Gulli. Clink, clonk, dadum-dum, what has Gulli found this time?A magnet! All the little metal things will stick to that!"Let me scan the ground, and the needle will soon be found," said Gulli. “Look Grandma, see how your needle is stuck, and I also found other long-lost metal stuff!”“Thank you Gulli, you are so wise. Your little brown box is really nice!” said Grandma.

Once upon a time, sly jackal wokeup early in the morning. He wasvery hungry. His tummy gave a biggrowl. GRRrrrrr! He jumped up andwent searching for food. He wandered around the forest forhours without getting any food. Thesun was very hot. Sly jackal couldbarely see in front of him. All hecould think of was his hungerpangs. "Aaauuuu!" Sly jackal let out a loudscream. He fell into a well right infront of him. He was so hungry thathe did not spot it. "Oh my hat!" he thought. "I have toget out of this well. I will die ofhunger." Sly jackal screamed and shouted:"Help! Anyone help!" Donkey wasgrazing a few metres away from thewell. Donkey heard sly jackal'sdesperate cry. He came rushing. "What is the matter?" Donkey wasvery worried."The water in this well is cool andsweet. I am bored swimming alone.I need someone to help me swim.Please will you join me?" "The sun is very hot," said donkey."I can't swim very well though.""Jump in! I will help you come out ofthe well," promised the sly jackal. Donkey jumped into the well. Thewater was so cool. He was free fromthe heat. Before he knew it, the slyjackal had jumped on his back andout of the well. Sly jackal laughedand ran away. Donkey was trappedin the well. He started screamingand shouting: "Help! Anyone help!"

Kala was staying with his Mom.They lived in a big house. Kalawas a spoiled boy. His Momloved him very much. He goteverything that he wanted. It was a bright, sunny Saturdaymorning. It was the start of theschool holidays. Kala woke uplater than usual. He was excitedand ready to go out in thestreet to play with his friends. Kala's Mom was working in hervegetable garden. She saw herson running out through thedoor. On the kitchen table there wasa big basket full of a variety offruits. Kala called out to hisMom, asking for an apple. "Didyou bath?'' asked his Mom. "Didyou brush your teeth?" sheasked too. "Yes Mom!"answered Kala. "Ok, you canhave one," she agreed. Kala immediately chose the biggest, juiciestapple from the fruit basket. He then dashedoutside towards his favourite playing area. After a few seconds, Mom heardKala screaming. "Aah, Mom!"called Kala. "Mom, my apple is bleeding!" he said. His Mom was busy inthe kitchen and Kala burst through the door. "Why are youmaking such a noise Kala," asked his Mom. "What is it?" "My apple is bleeding, look," he said again.Kala's Mom stopped what she was doing andturned to look at her son. She had a surpriselook on her face. She took the apple from Kala's hand and looked at it."Come here and open your mouth," she order Kala. "Aah,"opened Kala wide. Mom bend a little and peeped into herson's mouth. "It's not the apple that is bleeding, you little, lazy, naughty boy. It's your filthy,yellow rotting teeth!" she shouted. "You do not brush your teeth as told!" she saidwith a cross face. All that Kala felt as he escaped through the door, was hisbehind getting warm from his Mom's dish cloth!

School was about to get over. Just five minutes more, but Cheenu could not wait! He looked outside. There was nobody there. From somewhere close by, a bell jingled. “Cheenu, what are you doing?” asked his teacher.“Sorry Miss,” Cheenu said.“It's just that...” “Paperwala, kaidalu*! Papere kaidalu!” sang Cheenu's father, the Kabadiwala**. Even from outside, he could see Cheenu's grin.*Kaidalu: Paper in Telugu, **Kabadiwala: Junk dealer in Hindi. The school bell rang. Cheenu ran out to his father, grinning from ear to ear. He was the only child in school whose father came to pick him up. Cheenu jumped on to the bandi and dangled his legs. His father pushed the bandi*, shouting, “Paperwala... kaidalu!!!”Cheenu also shouted. They were quite loud! When a watchman stopped them, Cheenu jumped off. He went with his father, carrying an empty sack. All the things they would get today would go into that sack.*Bandi: Cart in Telugu. From this house, newspapers.From that one, newspapers and magazines.From the ground floor, newspapers and magazines and empty bottles. Cheenu ran to the bandi to get another empty sack. They were going up in a lift! Cheenu's eyes grew big and round! From the fifth floor, newspapers and magazines, bottles and boxes and books. While his father was talking to the lady, Cheenu put everything away so that the books were right on top. Where he could look at them! This time, Cheenu had to help his father push the bandi! At home, after they had put everything away, Cheenu's father called him. “I have something for you,” he said.It was the book Cheenu had been looking at all afternoon!“Thank you, Naana*!” Cheenu said. After that, they had to call him three times to come and have dinner!*Naana: Father in Telugu.

Long time ago, in a Turkanavillage, people loved to dancethe edonga dance. Every evening they gatheredtogether and danced edonga.The whole region came to knowof this village and its dancers. People from the nearby villagesalso came to dance edonga. A stranger heard of the famousvillage. He sent his messengerto go there before him. When the messenger arrived,the villagers were afraid. Theywondered who the strangerwas, and why he had sent hismessenger. The villagersprepared food and animals tobe slaughtered. The villagers gathered andprepared sacrifices. They satthe whole day until evening.But the stranger did not arrive. In the evening, the villagersdanced as usual until midnight.That night there were manydancers. Everybody in thevillage was excited. Before the dance ended, thestranger arrived. Even thoughhe was a stranger, he lookedjust like the other villagers.They did not notice him at first. When it was the stranger's turnto dance, he joined the men.But his dancing was strangeand different from the others. People were amused and beganto laugh at the stranger. Somedancers fell down laughing.Some sat down, and othersknelt laughing. The stranger did not like peoplelaughing at him. He decided tocurse them. He stoppeddancing and everyone becamea stone in the position theywere in. Some were lying down,others standing, others sittingand kneeling. Then the strangerleft the village. Since then, those stones remained there. At night they canbe heard singing and dancing edonga. That is how we havethe site of Namoratunga.

Sinyaire village is surrounded byhills.Many snakes live in the forest onthose hills.The biggest snake was calledUnyalego by the villagers.This snake scared many people.It swallowed whole goats andsheep. One day, sisters Apiyo, Ajoh andAtieno were going to the forest tofetch firewood.The girls' grandmother warned,"Beware of Unyalego the big snake.Do not take anything from theforest except the wood."Only Ajoh did not pay attention toher grandmother. The girls packed milk, bananas,sweet potatoes and water.They took ropes for tying firewoodand a sharp machete for choppingthe wood.Then they left for the forest. On the way, the sisters chattedand laughed.Suddenly, Apiyo, the eldest ofthem, said, "Be quiet. We arecoming to where Unyalego lives." Atieno called to the others, "Look,here are Unyalego's golden teeth.Let us take them."Apiyo reminded them, "Don't forgetgrandmother's warning. We mustnot take anything from the forestexcept firewood." Ajoh said, "I don't trustgrandmother. I think she said thatto stop us having what we want. Iwant the golden teeth."Her sisters were worried. "Ajoh, wewarned you," they said.Ajoh did not care. At that moment Unyalego camelooking for his golden teeth. He wasfurious when he could not find theteeth.Then Unyalego heard the girlschatting and laughing. He hid undera rock next to the road where thegirls would pass on their way back. The sisters were going homecarrying their firewood on theirheads.Suddenly, they heard "Hzzzzzzzz!"There was Unyalego with his mouthwide open, ready to bite. The girlswere terrified. Unyalego asked the girls, "Whotook my golden teeth?" No oneanswered.The snake decided to test the girls."Whoever is innocent, will be ableto sing without mistakes. She willgo home with her firewood.But the guilty one will sing badly.She will be my food for the nextthree days!" Apiyo started to sing with a clearvoice:"Sio mimi, sio mimi aliye na meno,Mwenye meno bado yuko nyuma."Then Atieno sang the song. She alsosang well. Lastly, it was Ajoh's turn. She wasscared. She stepped forward andstarted singing. But her singingsounded terrible and the wordswere wrong.Unyalego shouted, "Can't you singproperly like the others?"The snake knew that Ajoh took hisgolden teeth. Unyalego opened his huge jaws andswallowed Ajoh.Her sisters ran back to the village.They told everyone the story ofwhat happened."I warned her, if only she hadlistened," the girls' grandmothersaid sadly.

One day, all the wild animalsgot together to choose a king.They decided that Lion shouldbe their king. In celebration of the new king,they had a great big party thatwent on for a week. They ate,they drank, they sang and theydanced. When the celebration was over,everyone went home. King Lion went home too.The next day, when Hyenaarrived at Lion's house to visitthe king, he found Lion was sickin bed.Lion said weakly, "I have got aterrible illness. I don't knowwhat to do." Hyena said, "O great king, don'tworry. Hare will know the curefor this illness."The reason he said this was because he wanted to get Hareinto trouble with the king. Hyena knew that Hare would notbe able to cure Lion's illness. Lion cheered up and right awaysent Hyena to call Hare. Hyena ran to call Hare and said,"Let's go to the king because heis very sick. He sent me to callyou."So Hare hurried to Lion's house. Lion said, "I am so happy tosee, my dear Hare. I have calledyou because my life is hangingby a thread. I have an incurableillness. Hyena told me that youhave the cure for this sicknessof mine."And Hare replied, "You are correct, O king. I am able to healthis illness. But the medicine is very difficult to get a holdof." Lion replied, "Don't you worry,Hare, about this medicine beingdifficult to find. The bird thatflies is the one that is caught.Come on now, tell us about thismedicine!" And Hare replied, "O my king,when I say that the medicine ishard to find I don't mean that itis far away. For you to be healedat once, you must make anointment from the heart of ahyena." When Hyena heard that, hestarted trembling all over. Hewas the one who had told Lionthat Hare had the medicine tocure his illness! It was uselessnow to try to contradict Hareabout the medicine. So Hyena ran away.And to this day, hyenas like toeat hares, but always avoidlions.

“Meera, I went to your school today!” Amma said one day.“Really?” Meera said.“And the gate was wide open, and the watchman was missing!”“Oh! He was in our classroom, to see why our teacher had screamed!”“And why did your teacher scream?” Amma asked. “Because Rohan began crying!” “And why did Rohan cry?” Amma wanted to know.“Because the snake he had brought back from the zoo had eaten his mouse! And then the teacher screamed and the watchman came running!”“But I went to your classroom, and there was nobody there!” said Amma. “We were all hiding in the Staff Room,” Meera said.“Because Rohan's snake was in our classroom!”“But Meera, when I went to the Staff Room, I didn't see anyone there!” “That is because we had all run away to the Principal's Room,” Meera said.“Because Rohan said the snake was following us!”“But when I went to the Principal's Room, it was empty!” Amma said. “We couldn't stay there,” Meera said, “because Rohan's snake was looking for him. We climbed up to the terrace and stayed there till the bell rang!”“And I waited and waited in your school, all alone!” Amma said. “Not all alone, Amma, you had the snake for company!”“The snake!” Amma said, sitting down with a thump on a chair.

That is a cradle hanging from the Neem tree. You know what is in there? Devi's little sister! Yes, she is crying. You mean you can hear it as well? Devi certainly can. And she is sick of it! Devi has finally stopped playing hopscotch, and she has taken her sister out. Oops! The cradle is flying! Right over the tree! It's only an old sari, what do you expect? That is Krishna, Devi's friend. He thinks throwing small rocks at the sari will bring it down. The little girl in the orange skirt is Leela. She wants Devi to use a long stick to untangle the sari. All the kids are laughing at her.“If it was that easy, do you think WE wouldn't have thought of it?” they ask. Salia is taking running jumps at the sari. She is quite tall, and her fingers just touch the cloth. Now ALL the children are lining up for jumps! Devi's sister is quite happy. She is smiling and chewing on some grass she has found. Oh, no, she isn't. Devi has taken it from her. Raju has organised all the children, big ones first, small ones later. Oh, gosh!Do you think he's going to make them climb on top of each other?Yes! and they are going to manage it! No, they are not! What now? That is Devi's father at the top of the road! Quick! Think of something!Leela is tottering under the long pole she has found. It's about to fall! No, it isn't. Krishna has taken it from her. Raju is helping too. This time they just might get it down! Quick! Put the baby in the cradle before Devi's father sees!In any case, it is nice to have friends to play hopscotch with. Quick! Put the baby in the cradle before Devi's father sees!In any case, it is nice to have friends to play hopscotch with.

This is Khalai. She is seven years old. Her name means 'the good one' in her language, Lubukusu. Khalai wakes up and talks to the orange tree. "Please orange tree, grow big and give us lots of ripe oranges." Khalai walks to school. On the way she talks to the grass. "Please grass, grow greener and don't dry up." Khalai passes wild flowers. "Please flowers, keep blooming so I can put you in my hair." At school, Khalai talks to the tree in the middle of the compound. "Please tree, put out big branches so we can read under your shade." Khalai talks to the hedge around her school. "Please grow strong and stop bad people from coming in." When Khalai returns home from school, she visits the orange tree. "Are your oranges ripe yet?" asks Khalai. "The oranges are still green," sighs Khalai. "I will see you tomorrow orange tree," says Khalai. "Perhaps then you will have a ripe orange for me!"

Adun was very beautiful. All themen in her village wanted tomarry her. But Adun refusedthem all. One market day, a manborrowed legs from anotherman, and arms from another,and a body from a third man.Then this man joined all theparts together. He put his headon top and went to the market. This man wanted Adun and wasdetermined to marry her. Adunwas pleased by his appearance.She wanted to be with him. Theman came from a far town, andAdun decided to return withhim. As Adun and the man journeyedto his place, the owner of thelegs took the legs back.Then the owner of the armstook his arms back.And finally the owner of thebody took that back. Only the head was left, and thehead went on. Adun was scaredbut she did not run away. Theyarrived at the house of thehead. The following morning, beforethe head went to his farm, hespoke to Tortoise. "If Adun triesto escape, blow this horn to tellme," said the head. After the head left, Adun packedher things. Then she began torun away. Seeing her, Tortoise blew thehorn, "Head, head, Adun isabout to run away," puffedTortoise. The head went up to Adun andsaid, "Where do you think youare going?"Adun went back to the head'shouse. Eventually Adun consulted adiviner about what to do. Thediviner advised, "Go and buysome bean cakes. Soak them inpalm oil and put them inTortoise's horn." Adun followed the diviner'sinstructions. She put the oilycakes into the horn. The following day, she took herthings and began to run awayagain. When Tortoise took thehorn to blow it, the deliciousbean cakes fell into his mouth. Tortoise ate, ate and ate.And Adun ran away.

In a small garden in the city, there was a big pipal tree.A family of squirrels lived on that tree. Vikki is one member of that family who likes to talk big. His cousin, Kato had come to visit him from Far Forest. “Today we shall go on a big boat,” said Vikki to Kato.“B... B... But, I... I...am afraid of water, I cannot swim,” mumbled Kato.“Come on, you scrappy squirrel! With Vikki around, you need not be afraid. I have been on a boat many times.”Vikki importantly leading the way, they reached the river. The boat was tied to a post. So they ran up the rope, hopped into the boat, and sat curled in a corner. Slowly the boat started moving up and down the river, which curled and curved through the trees. Kato saw many ducks swimming past them.The fish put their heads out of the water and gulped a “Hello!”Some swans majestically glided near them. They were so beautiful that Kato tried to touch one and he toppled over into the river. As he went deeper into the water, he passed some fish.“Help! Help!” he gurgled, as he passed the boat. Vikki did not know what to do. He just scampered from one side of the boat to the other side, shouting, “Help! Squirrel overboard!”A swan had seen Kato fall into the water. She just put her head down in the water and picked up Kato in her beak. Then she tossed him into the boat. A shivering, trembling Kato sat in a sunny corner to dry himself.Vikki sat quietly near him. As he got warm and dry, he cheered up, “What an adventure! Wait till I tell the folks back home.”Already he fancied himself as a sailor! A hero! Brave and adventurous! When the boat reached the bank, the squirrels hopped off and swaggered their way home. Kato was finding it difficult to keep his grand adventure inside his head. His head was going round and round like the boat.He shut his eyes and fell fast asleep at the dinner table.

One day, grandfather gave my brother and me some money."Go and buy books," he said.We were both very happy. We both love to read. Should we go now? Should we go later?Should we go today? Should we go tomorrow?We decided to go right now. Should we go to the big market? Should we go to the small shop?Should we go with somebody? Should we go alone?We decided to go to the small shop, just the two of us. We like the small bookshop. It is small but it has many books.The man in the shop likes us. He always helps us. Should I buy a book with a lot of pictures?Should I buy a book with many stories?Should I buy a thin book?I could not decide. We do not know which book to buy. The man in the shop smiled at us. “Relax, come with me,” he said. “These books are about animals. Those are about machines. Those over there are about wars. Take what you want.” I picked up some books. My brother picked up some books.I sat on the floor. He sat on the chair.And we read and we read and we read. It was very quiet. There was no sound.One hour passed. Two hours passed.Finally, we knew which books to buy. The man in the bookshop smiled at us. I got a fat book with many stories. My brother got a big book with many pictures.We ran home to our grandfather. We climbed on his bed.He put his arms around us and then we read, and read, and read.

Mother's song was soft and sweet.Chandu was listening to it. Chandu fell asleep.In his dream, he was flying. Flying, flying into a garden. Look! A butterfly, so pretty.The butterfly said, “Well, hello! How are you?”“Fine, thank you,” Chandu replied. Chandu flew a bit higher. Flying, flying. He flew into a sparrow.“Hi there! How do you do?” she asked.“Very well, thank you,” Chandu said. Then Chandu soared still higher. Flying, still flying, he met an eagle.“Hello friend! How are you?” the eagle asked.“I feel good,” replied Chandu. Chandu was flying higher and higher. It seemed so easy. Flying, flying. So high that he came up to an aeroplane.“Hey, Chandu, how do you do?” the aeroplane asked.“Fine. And safe journey!” Chandu quickly replied. Soon Chandu climbed higher than before. Flying and still flying.A rocket came to meet him. “Hello sir, how do you do?” the rocket shouted.“Very well,” Chandu smiled. Still, Chandu was flying higher and higher. Now the stars were twinkling all around. They were smiling at Chandu, as though he were a part of them.“How are you feeling Chandu?” one star asked him.“I am feeling great!” he said.Suddenly, the stars began to wobble. And shake. It was Mother, shaking Chandu awake. “Good morning, how are you?”He hugged her hard and said, “Oh, now I feel better than ever before!”

Long time ago, there lived a girl whose name was Kalabushe. Kalabushe was a very talkative girl. Although her mother warned her not to talk too much, Kalabushe did not listen. Kalabushe's aunt lived across the valley on the other side of Kalabushe's village. One day she fell ill. She had nobody to take care of her. Kalabushe's mother was very busy. It was late in the evening when she gave Kalabushe food to take to her sick aunt. On the way, Kalabushe met Sinson. Sinson was a hyena who had changed into a person. Sinson asked Kalabushe, "What are you carrying?" Kalabushe answered, "I am carrying meat, eggs and milk." Kalabushe's mother had warned her not to say what she was carrying. Kalabushe also said, "I am taking the food to my sick aunt." Sinson licked his lips at the thought of the meat that Kalabushe was carrying. Sinson quickly ran ahead of Kalabushe to her aunt's house. He swallowed Kalabushe's aunt and then covered himself with her blanket. When Kalabushe arrived, the house was very quiet. She went inside and called out, "Aunt, where are you?" Kalabushe did not hear her aunt's voice. She went to the inner room where her aunt slept. She was surprised when she saw someone covered with a big blanket. Kalabushe asked, "Aunt, why are your ears so big today?" Sinson replied from under the big blanket, "So that I can hear you well." Kalabushe asked again, "Aunt, why are your eyes so big today?" Sinson answered, "So I can see you well." Kalabushe finally asked, "Aunt, why is your mouth so big today?" Sinson replied, "So I can eat you up!" He jumped from the bed and swallowed Kalabushe. Kalabushe kept talking even when she was inside Sinson's stomach. She asked many questions. In the end, Sinson was so tired of Kalabushe's many questions that he decided to spit her out. Kalabushe and her aunt were rescued by the villagers. From that day, Kalabushe did not talk too much to strangers.

Many years ago when Rumniya was a baby, Nana, Nani and Rumniya went to a wedding. There were hundreds of people at the party, most of whom were near the food. After some time, Nani lost Rumniya. When things get lost, Nani does not worry; she feels that everything will turn up, and turn out right very soon. So Nani did not feel worried. On the other hand, Rumniya was only one and a half years old, so she was quite worried and not as hopeful. But rather than doing any silly baby-like things like crying, Rumniya thought of doing something else. In that vast crowd, it was impossible for a small girl to search for people's faces. In fact, it was much easier to search for the right person by looking at people's feet, their shoes and sandals. So that is what Rumniya did. She started from one end of the room. She lifted up the sari of each and every woman. Then she came to a sari that was familiar, and slippers that she knew. Sure enough, when Rumniya matched the face with the sari and slippers, it was Nani! And as Nani bent down to pick Rumniya up, Nani said to her friend, “See, I told you. There was nothing to worry about. Whenever you lose something, you will always find it.”

A long time ago, in the vast cityof Johannesburg, a baby girlwas born. That baby was me.My mom called me Miriam.Miriam Makeba. Mom was a sangoma, but shealso worked to make otherpeople's homes neat and clean.It was hard for my mom to earnenough for both of us. Shestarted selling homemade beerto bring in more money. The laws of the land said thatselling homemade beer waswrong. The police sent my momto jail for six long months. I wasonly 18 days old, and neededmy mom. So even though I wasjust a baby, I went to jail too. As a little girl I loved to sing.When I was older, I helped mymom clean houses. Singingsongs as I worked made thechores go faster and the daysseem brighter. Singing mademe happier than I can explain. I sang in my church, and thismade others happy too. Musichas the power to bring peopletogether. When we were singingwe felt brave and strong. People said my voice was a giftand my songs were special. Isang with other musicians andour music was heard all overthe world. My home was Sophiatown, aplace of culture and music.Sophiatown, a place whereSouth Africans could makemusic in harmony and dancetogether. But the people whoruled the land at the time didnot like this togetherness.Those rulers didn't want blackand white people to be friends. I knew it was wrong to treatpeople differently because oftheir skin colour. I did not hidemy beliefs, and so those peoplein charge wanted me out of thecountry.When I was singing in America,I was told I could never returnhome. People all over the world heardmy story. My songs and mystory helped many to see howthere was no fairness in SouthAfrica for those with black skin.I decided to go on singing andtelling the truth about mycountry, no matter what. The world loved my music and Iwas welcomed in manycountries. I won awards andsang for important people allover the globe. My life wasgood, but something wasmissing. I could not sing in myhome country, and people therewere not free. Then a wonderful day dawnedwhen Nelson Mandela becamepresident of South Africa. Newpeople were in charge and theunfair laws belonged to thepast. I finally went home withnew hope in my heart. After that I could sing in a free,fair country. People of differentskin colours could enjoy musictogether. I helped make thishappen because I was braveand strong. I sang the truth inall of my songs.

Mother was finishingpacking her clothes in asmall bag. As she went out thedoor, she hugged meand said, "Bye for now." "Where are you going,mum?" I looked up ather as I asked. I started to cry wantingto follow her but dadlifted me up on hisshoulder. Dad said, "Your motheris going to the hospitalto have a baby." When I heard "baby" Istopped crying andlooked at him. "Why isshe going to get thebaby from thehospital?" I asked him. Dad sat me on a smallchair and said, "I willtell you why she isgoing to get the babyfrom the hospital."I listened keenly to him as he explainedalthough I didn't quite understand why shewasn't having the baby at home. When dadfinished explaining, I asked, "Will she stilllove me when she comes back with theother baby?" My dad held me closeand said, "We willalways love you." "Can I write a letter toher while she is there?"I asked dad. That evening, I beganto write a letter tomum. I tore a paper from myexercise book andbegan to write... "Mummy, mummy, dadsaid that you have goneto bring another baby... ...Please hurry up andreturn home... ...I want you to bring ababy girl, so I can playwith her when shegrows up... ...You can bring two soone can be mine... ...I am waiting for youhere outside ourhouse." I folded my letter so Icould give it to myfather to bring it tomum. When I woke upthe following morning,the letter was gone.

There was a mouse in the house. Grandma saw it first."Mouse!" she screamed, jumping up the sofa. The cushions fell on the floor. “Where?” asked Pa, climbing up the window. He pulled the curtains down. “There!” shouted Ma, leaping up the table. The plates fell with a crash. “Catch him!” said Mithun to the cat. The cat looked at the mouse and fled under the bed!“Mouse!” screamed Mithun, running behind the cat. “I will chase it out!” said Ma bravely. She took out the broom and poked here and there. “Mouse!” shouted Pa. “Behind you!”Ma looked at the mouse, and fled under the bed! "I know what to do!" shouted Grandma jumping down from the sofa. She rolled up a newspaper and poked here and there. “Mouse!” yelled Pa, climbing the window even higher.“To your left!” Grandma looked at the mouse, and fled under the bed. “Oh no!” said Pa softly. He couldn't go any higher. He climbed down carefully, and fled under the bed before the mouse could see him! "Mouse in the House!" shouted everyone together. That woke Baby up. She sat up on her mat, rubbing her eyes sleepily. What was that on her pillow? It had two eyes, four feet, and a long tail."Mouse!" said Baby, clapping happily. Baby looked at the mouse, and the mouse fled, with Baby right behind him! Leaping up the sofa, climbing the window, jumping up the table, tumbling over the cushions... ... running in between the curtains, scurrying over the plates, and out of the door!

My name is Shyam, I am ten years old.I am a little skinny, but very bold!Waking up for school is no fun at allI am so sleepy as I get up, I think I will fall. My eyes close as I begin to brush,I hear Amma making dosas in a rush.My mind slowly begins to wander away,And many, many ideas come into play. What if my neck was ten times as long?Half in school, half at home, where would I belong? What if my legs were as tall as trees?My school building would only come up to my knees! What if my arms were strong enough?Then, lifting Amma would not be tough! What if there was nothing too hard for my teeth?Think of all the things I could eat! What if my belly was as round as could be?All my friends could jump and bounce off me! What if I had big and floppy ears?I could hear everything, far and near! What if — I begin, but Amma shouts,“Shyam, you'll be late, what are you thinking about?” I find myself still standing with my brush in my hand,And I smile and think of my secret little land.

Long ago, there was a foolish lazy jackal. He lived with his old father in the Kalahari bush. One morning Old Jackal woke up to find his son sleeping in the sun. The food was not ready and the goats were still in the kraal!"Young man, you are so lazy! Go and find a wife. I am too old to look after you," said Jackal's father. So Jackal jumped up and took the goats out to graze. In the bush, he saw something shining on a rock. He went closer and closer to the rock. The closer he got, the more beautiful the shine was. Perhaps this was the wife for him?! "You are beautiful," said Jackal to the shine. "But who are you? Why are you alone?""I am the sun," the shine answered. "My family left me here when they moved on. They did not want to carry me. I am too hot." The jackal said, "But you are so beautiful! I will carry you. I will take you home to meet my father.""All right, you can carry me. But do not complain when I get too hot for you," said the sun. So Jackal put the sun on his back and started the journey home. Before long, the sun was burning Jackal's fur."Will you please come down from my back? I need to rest," said Jackal. His back was so sore that he could hardly walk."Just carry on!" said the sun. "I told you not to complain!" Then Jackal saw a log across the path. He crawled under the log so that the sun would fall off. But the log also scraped the skin and fur from his back and they were left behind with the sun. The new fur was a different colour to the fur on the rest of his body. The different colours always reminded Jackal not to be so foolish again.

The lion was the king of the jungle.Everyone shivered and shook when he roared. He had a terrible toothache since two days.“Maharaj, get this tooth extracted,” suggested the monkey, the jungle physician.“Alright,” agreed the lion. Who would extract the lion's tooth? They were all terrified of him!“Maharaj, I will give you a kick with my hind legs. The tooth will pop out,” said the foolish donkey. “You will dare to kick the king?” roared the lion peevishly.The donkey tucked his tail between his legs and ran off. The elephant, cheetah, bear and deer were all worried.Who would stick their hand into the lion's mouth? Two days passed. The toothache was getting unbearable.“Should I take a look?” asked the mouse one night when the lion and he were alone.“Alright,” said the lion and opened his mouth wide. “Oh! There is a lot of dirt trapped between your teeth!” said the mouse taking a peek inside. Using his sharp teeth, he cleaned out the lion's teeth. The lion felt much better. “Maharaj, please clean your teeth everyday, or else your teeth will rot,” said the wise little mouse. “Yes, you are right. But please don't tell anybody or they will say their king doesn't keep clean...” pleaded the lion. "Alright," laughed the mouse. The lion also laughed.

Sona's mother was making prints on a sari with a block.Sona said, “Ma, I want to make prints too.” Ma gave Sona a piece of cloth and some colours. The room was full of things that helped in making printed cloth. Ma said, “Sona, why don't you sit outside and print? Listen carefully to the sounds of my printing.” Sona sat at a small table outside. When there was no sound from the room Sona knew that Ma was quietly putting colours on the block.Then Sona would also colour her block. When she heard the sound thupp, Sona would press her block on to the cloth. Silence-thupp, silence-thupp, Ma and Sona worked together. But there was another small sound that Sona could hear, chun-chanan-chun, that made her smile. After some time Ma called out, “Sona, have you seen my keys? I cannot find them.” Sona went to Ma. She held her around her waist. “Sona, this is no time to play!” Ma said looking around.“I have to take out the colours from the cupboard. I need the keys. Try to find them please!” Sona pulled the end of Ma's odhni* that was tucked into her waist.Chun-chanan-chanwent the keys tied to a corner of the odhni, chun-chanan-chan.*Piece of cloth draped like a shawl. “Oh! How did you know the keys were here?” Ma asked in surprise.“Ma, I was listening carefully,” laughed Sona.“Silence-thupp-chunn,silence-thupp-chunn!”“You are such a smart girl, Sona!” said Ma.

One day, Rabbit was walking by the riverside. Hippo was there too, going for a stroll and eating some nice green grass. Hippo didn't see that Rabbit was there and she accidentally stepped on Rabbit's foot.Rabbit started screaming at Hippo, "You Hippo! Can't you see that you're stepping on my foot?" Hippo apologised to Rabbit, "I'm so sorry. I didn't see you. Please forgive me!"But Rabbit wouldn't listen and he shouted at Hippo, "You did that on purpose! Someday, you'll see! You're going to pay!" Rabbit went to find Fire and said, "Go, burn Hippo when she comes out of the water to eat grass. She stepped on me!"Fire answered, "No problem, Rabbit, my friend. I'll do just what you ask." Later, Hippo was eating grass far from the river when, "Whoosh!" Fire burst into flame. The flames began to burn Hippo's hair. Hippo started to cry and ran for the water. All her hair was burned off by the fire.Hippo kept crying, "My hair has burned in the fire! My hair is all gone! My beautiful hair!" Rabbit was happy that Hippo's hair was burned.And to this day, for fear of fire, the hippo never goes far from the water.

Phani is always late. Or not where he is supposed to be.“Why does your teacher say you're always late for school, Phani?” asks his father. “You leave home quite early.”“I can't help it, Baba,” Phani says. His mother wants to know why he is sitting in front of the TV every evening instead of playing with the other children.“I can't help it, Ma,” says Phani. Why not, his parents want to know. So do his teachers, friends and his sister, who had once asked him to post a letter. “Why can't you help it, Phani?” they ask.“It's because of my chappals,” Phani mumbles. “Speak up, child! Stand up straight, shoulders back!”That was his class teacher. So Phani explains. Every time he is on his way to school, his chappals know a better way to get there. Sometimes, they lead by the mango tree where there are lovely green mangoes. Sometimes, when his feet are sweating all over the chappals, they take him to school by a road that just happens to be near a clear, cool pond. And the chappals prefer to watch TV than be hurled at a pile of seven stones. Anybody should know that!“Next time your chappals don't feel like posting a letter, at least let me know!” says Phani's sister angrily. Nobody believes Phani.Today, Phani's mother has something for him. Phani is very happy. He opens the box and takes out a new pair of chappals! His mother is smiling... But Phani doesn't look very happy. I wonder why!

I do not know why I woke up very early todaySoon I saw that it was a strange new day! Nothing at all was as it really should beAnd I could hear someone shouting loudly at me! Our cot had climbed right up the wallAnd my little clock had grown very tall! Our umbrella was twirling madly round and roundMy red and blue cap was making a clicking sound! What on earth has happened to our little room?I fear I am going to faint very soon! The fan has turned into a big octopusMy sister's doll is eating dal and rice without a fuss. Our cat is sitting up in Papa's chairAnd look! A mouse is reading the news on the air! In the mirror - Aah! See! I am seven feet high!I know I am going to loudly cry! But now look! Here comes a magic man“Sorry! Sorry!” he says, “I will do what I can!” “Yes, yes! It was I who made this little messIt was not so nice of me, I do confess!” So Abra-ca-da-dabra chin chin choo!Room! Get back in order - one - three - two!

Pehelwaan ji exercised every day. One day, he wanted to be a player. He went to the field and said to the children, “I want to play with you.”The children were scared of him. So they could not say no to him! When Pehelwaan kicked the ball it almost burst. When he kicked it again, the goalkeeper went flying! The children did not know what to do. Gappu said, “Pehelwaan ji, let us play cricket.”Pehelwaan ji said, “Yes, but I will bat first.” Gappu ran, and jumped high as he threw the ball. Pehelwaan ji lifted the bat. He lost his balance. The ball hit his head. Ouch! Pehelwaan said, “Now, I will bowl.”Gappu said, “Fine Pehelwaan ji, but please do not jump high when you bowl. That will scare me.” Pehelwaan did not listen to Gappu. He jumped high. He lost his balance and fell down. THUD! He got up and said, "I will field now."Gappu nodded his head. Gappu turned his bat this way and that. The ball went all over the field. Zipp, zapp, zipp, zoom. Pehelwaan ji huffed and puffed as he ran after it. OHH, AAAH, HMMPH. Pehelwaan ji was very tired.He pulled a face and said, “This is not for me! I will be the wicket-keeper.” Gappu agreed. Gappu threw the ball up high. The batsman ducked. Pehelwaan ji could do nothing as the ball went straight into his mouth... GUPP! “Forget it. I don't want to play!” said Pehelwaan ji.He was in bad shape as he ran away. Gappu pulled out a new ball and everybody went back to the game peacefully.

One afternoon, Saboo was playing alone in the garden “Mother can I have a small puppy?”“No,” said mother.“A very small puppy?”asked Saboo.“No,” said mother. Saboo kicked a stone, which rolled near a tree. The tree trunk had fur. He touched it and looked up, up, and right up. He saw two eyes looking down at him. “Hello! Who are you?” asked a surprised Saboo.“Hello yourself, I am a giraffe. My name is Jojo. I can play with you. If you climb up on to my back, I will take you for a ride.” Saboo climbed up and away they went down the road, up the hill, and into town.Saboo shouted happily,“Jojo turn right, now left, and again right,” till they came to his friend Munni's house. It was Munni's birthday. The children clapped when they saw Saboo on Jojo's back. Jojo helped Aunty put up the balloons. He was soooo...o tall, it was easy for him. Jojo gave the children rides, he even played kick ball with them. It was a fun party.Everyone sang, “Happy birthday to you.” Aunty put samosas, gulab jamuns, and ice-creams on the table. Jojo loved the ice-cream, so uncle got him a bucketful of ice-cream. Jojo finished it all. It was time to go home.They said, “Bye Jojo, bye Saboo.”Saboo and Jojo made their way back home. Mother was standing at the gate. When she saw Saboo riding a giraffe, she was so... so... shocked.“Saboo... I... said,”“Mother you said, no small puppy, you did not say, no big tall giraffe.” Before mother could answer, the zookeeper came and took Jojo back to the zoo.

Nani keeps losing her glasses.“Where did I keep them?” she always asks. Without her glasses, she cannot find her glasses. So she needs me. To be her eyes, to find her own eyes! Sometimes her spectacles are in the bathroom. Or on her bed. Or on her head.“Nani,” I say, “they are on your head!” “Of course! How silly of me. Thank you, Richa dear,” she says with a giggle.This time, though, I cannot find Nani's glasses. Not yet. I have looked everywhere. In all the usual places. On her head, in the bathroom, inside her cupboard, and on the puja shelf. I have looked under her favourite chair and on the dining table.Nothing. No glasses. Where could they be? I decided to be a good detective. I decided to find out what she had done all day. “I did nothing much today. Except that Veena's mother-in-law came, you know. And how much she gossips! We had many cups of tea. And she ate all the laddoos your mother had made,” said Nani. Raju said, “Nani was very busy today. She wrote a letter to the Chief Minister about her pension.” Amma said, “She spoke for a long time to your Masi. She finished knitting the sweater for Raju. And then she went for a short walk.”I now had many clues. I quickly looked around new places in the house.Aha! I have found the missing glasses! The spectacles were wrapped in wool, kept next to her pen, under the phone, on her desk. And I found a half-eaten laddoo there as well. For Nani's next birthday, I will save money for an extra pair of glasses!Nani: Hindi word for grandmotherMasi: Hindi word for mother's sister

Hello, I am the fourth one in the line. Can you see me? Left, right, left, right. We walk silently in a line. I just got an idea. I am going to get a set of WHEELS to move faster! We are not noisy like other animals. Ours is a language of smells. One kind of smell says, “Follow me this way for a feast.” Another smell says, “Danger! Do not go there.” I love cakes and all kinds of sweets, just like you. Want to see my muscles at work? I may look very tiny to you, but I am very strong. Never mind if the door is shut. I can slip through the smallest crack. Believe it or not, hundreds of us live happily in a colony. LET US LEARN SOME NEW WORDS.Small - BigSlow - FastShort - TallThin - FatHard - SoftNoisy - QuietHere are some words with their opposites. Can you make a sentence for each pair of opposite words?For example, ‘An ant is small; an elephant is big'.“As busy as an ant” is a nice way to describe someone who is very hard working.

This is my house. Ma, Pa and Cheena also live here. The best chair in the house is for me. But sitting on the lap is even better, isn't it? Cheena is my best friend. I wait for her to return from school. I keep myself clean without water. I do not need a bath like Tommy. Shhh... don't tell anyone that I am hiding here.1...2...3... Got you! Ma shouts at me, when I bring some tasty food from the garden. I can climb trees. I can jump. I know all the short cuts here. Sanju lives nearby. He teases me. It makes me very angry. Please tell Sanju that the tiger is from our cat family. We have sharp claws. My friends sometimes make a lot of noise at night. By then I am quietly in bed. Tails can speak!Did you know how animals and birds tell us something by using their tails?A dog wags its tail when it is happy. A cat puffs up its tail when it is angry.Often we say, “As clean as a cat”. This is because cats do not like water, yet they are always keeping themselves clean by licking themselves.

I live in the mango tree. I eat lots of ripe fruit in summer. When my babies are in the nest, I have to be on guard. Come peep into my nest. See the lovely things I have found. I love to fly up in the sky, like a plane. I sit on the tree and look around for some tasty bits of food. I look to my right. I look to my left. I love fish. When I spot it, I fly down to pick it up. With my cawing I call my friends to share the feast with me. Some people shout at me, “Go away, you noisy bird.” Mr Fox likes my singing. He told me so himself. LET US LEARN SOME NEW WORDS.The sound that each animal or bird makes, has a special name. How many of these do you know?A crow caws.A cat mews. A lion roars.A dog barks.Crows make a lot of noise. So when some people talk loudly we say, “As noisy as a crow”.

Maama Bela gave a letter toNekesa."Take this letter to Jjaja Kolo"Said maama Bela. Nekesa put on her shoes.She put the letter in her smallbag and ran off. She met her friends who were playing netball."Am taking this letter to Jjaja Kolo. I like toenjoy netball for some minutes. I must join younow," said Nekesa.She played netball with friends. She met an old man with herwife feeding the chicken."Am taking this letter to JjajaKolo, but it is fun to feedchicken, I must join you now"Nekesa started to feed chicken. She met friends who wanted to climb a hill."Am taking this letter to Jjaja Kolo, but I havenever climbed any hill. I must join you now."She joined the group. She met friends who werepicking mangoes. "Am takingthis letter to Jjaja Kolo but i likepicking mangoes.I must join you."She picked mangoes withfriends. She met friends who wereswimming."Am taking this letter to JjajaKolo but i like swimming somuch.I must join you now."She joined the swimming group. She forgot about the letter.Some one played with the bagand dropped the letter on thegrass.A group of cows came to thepool to drink water. A cow grabbed the letter andchewed it up.Nekesa did not see the cow. "It is coming to midday.I must take Jjaja Kollo's letter"She said.Nekesa picked her bag and checked inside it.The bag was empty. she screamed and called forhelp."My friends help meI cant find Jjaja Kolo's letter.Who has picked it?" Her friends tried to look for theletter but it was not found. "Am now in danger.but let me go back home.but Maama Bela will punish me."She went home with one of her friend. "Am sssssorry Maama Belah! I lost Jjaja Kolo'sletter."Maama Belah asked her many questions.She knew that Nekesa played much and lostthe letter.She gave her a small punishment and warnedher never to do it again.

We are a family of four. I follow Chinku everywhere. I have to look after Chinku. You see, I am older than him. Sometimes Chinku is careless. It is my duty to guard the house. We do everything together. We work together. We play together. We even share Ma's scolding. When Chinku is at school I help Ma. I keep the crows away from the papads. Today Chinku will be my teacher. At last, I will learn something new. I am a good doggy. I do not scare away cats. Are you Chinku's friend? Then you are my friend too. Read the following action sentences. Which of these activities do you like to do?I like dancing.I like swimming.I like skipping.I like drawing. I like cycling.I like climbing.Sometimes we say, “As faithful as a dog”. This is because a dog always stays close to its master. If it goes far away or is lost, a dog always finds its way back home.

In a far away town, there lived aboy named Themba.Everyone in the town was tired ofThemba breaking things anddrawing on walls, so his mumdecided that farm work was theonly place he would not be able tobreak or ruin anything. So she senthim to work at the farm with Siphothe herdsman. Early in the morning Themba andSipho would go to the farm and lookafter the animals and water thecrops. The more that Themba worked inthe farm the more it felt like doingchaos and no longer fun.Themba started to get tired andannoyed with the place, but Siphowould always encourage him andtell him that it can be fun. Sipho would go and play with theanimals. He would feed them andtalk to them. But Themba would sitand just watching, he didn't feel likeworking in the farm anymore. Hethought it was a waste of time forhim. After seeing how much fun Siphowas having, Themba decided to goand join in the fun. But Themba started getting carriedaway and what seemed like fun nowfelt horrible for Sipho. "Now this is fun! you were rightSipho, working in the farm is somuch fun. Hahahahah" saidThemba Themba destroyed the farm and letall the animal out of the farm andled the to town. Soon the animals were all over thetown and people started shouting atThemba. Everyone new that troublefrom the naughthy boy was backagain.Chickens were running everywhere,the other animals were eating andbreaking things in the town. It wasall a big mess. It all got out of hand and theanimals started chasing Thembaand the people."Oh no, what have i done?" saidThemba  So Sipho told Themba that theyhave to get the animals back to thefarm and clean up the place beforehis mum comes from work or elsethey will both be in big trouble.They started cleaning and fetchingwater to water the plants thatThemba had destroyed and got allthe animals back to the farm intime. In no time the garden was back tothe way it was."Thank you so much Sipho, we hadput the garden back to how it was"Themba shouted"Yesss! we did it Themba" Siphosaid cheerfully Now instead of messing the farmThemba and Sipho would sit andenjoy the Apples from the Appletree and play with the animals.Themba never again did as he haddone before, he now listened toSipho and realised that being at thefarm can also be fun withoutvandalising the place.

Years ago, a group of hornedanimals decided to have a bigparty high up in the mountains.They only invited other animalswith horns. No one else. When the pig heard about theparty, he thought, "I don't havehorns. What am I going to do?" The next day, he had an idea.He'd stick some horns to hishead with wax! It worked and the pig felt veryclever when he was allowedinto the party. The problem wasthat the party was taking placeclose to the sun. When the party started heatingup, the wax began to melt andhis horns fell off.The horned animals wereshocked. "Who's that one withno horns? Why did he comehere?" they asked. The king of the animalscommanded, "Grab that pig andthrow him down to earth."They grabbed the pig and threwhim down to earth. Poor pig! When he fell, helanded on his nose. And hisnose was flattened into a snout. So don't be surprised when yousee the pig's flat snout,because it's been that way eversince.

ACT-1 Look at me, animals! I am a human being! I know everything! Look, these are my eyes. I can see everything with them. So what? We have eyes too. And we can see in the dark! Fine, but look at my nose. I breathe through my nose. So what? We also have noses and ours are prettier than yours! And yes, my teeth. I use my teeth to chew and bite. Teeth? Ha! Ha! Have you seen our teeth?You can chew. But WE CAN BITE! Hiee.. Hiee...Hiee... Yes, but listen! I can hear a lot with my ears! Little one! We can hear sounds which you cannot imagine at all! And I can walk, run and even dance with my feet. Oh! We have four feet! We can jump, we can danceand we can parade too! I can plait my hair. Uh! Our hair is pretty too.We could plait it if we wanted to. Maybe! Look! I can work with my hands! Hands! Keep your hands to yourself! ACT-2 Aha! I told you! I am the best! I know it all! Really?Have you seen our sharp claws? Yes! But your nails will pick up dirt! Now see, these are our lovely tails. Tails! We gave them up long ago!How else could we wear our shorts? And we can roar! Roar? Have you heard my mother? So then! You are only animals - I know that! Humans are animals too. We know that! You may be right. Look at my brother!Mother says he is wild. He is definitely an animal. Yes! And so are you! Believe us! We are all animals.We all belong here. Just like you.

Pishi was feeling sad and lonely. Just a day ago, he was one of a group of manta rays. They were feasting on tonnes of fish, far from the coast of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. How they had splashed and jumped out of the waters of the beautiful Indian Ocean! When he saw a ship ahead, Pishi had taken a huge dive in the water. His friends scattered. Pishi flapped his huge cloak-like fins and tried to swim to safety. There was a huge streak of lightning and a sound of thunder next. Pishi lost his bearings. The ocean had gone dark for him. A big wave rolled up, pushing him directly under the ship. Aaah, a cut on his belly! He knew what he had to do. He had to find his friends. But first he needed his wound to be treated. He swam and glided as fast as he could towards the coast. Pishi's heart beat fast. He wished he was not so big – 10 metres long, and weighing over 900 kilograms! He had to get to a hospital. Fast! His life depended on it. Then he saw the lighthouse on the coast. He leapt with joy! Pishi had reached the hospital, nature's hospital. A huge school of fish swam around him immediately. The same fish that he ate at other times were now his nurses. They cleaned the deep gash in his tummy. The ‘cleaner fish' nibbled on the torn pieces of skin. Soon Pishi felt so much better. He loved the Indian Ocean with its 5,000 species of marine life! Dear Reader,The Indian Ocean is known as ‘Ratnakara' in ancient Sanskrit literature. Ratnakara means the mine of jewels.Manta rays often visit cleaning stations. A cleaning station can be called nature's hospital in the ocean. Here, small fish such as angelfish swim in the manta ray's gills and over its skin. They are called cleaner fish because, they clean the manta ray by eating up parasites and dead tissue. Even though manta rays are huge, they are quite gentle.They are hunted by many animals like big sharks, whales and humans.

Once upon a time therabbit was a greatfriend of the monkey. One day the rabbitsaid:Let's go for a walkand look forsomething to eat.The monkey agreed,but it was a trap forhim! They went to a field ofmaize and started toeat it. But the clever rabbithad spoken to theowners of the farm, tocatch the monkey andshow him he wasfoolish. The clever rabbitstarted shouting:Robbers! Robbers!Your maize is all gone!And he jumped up andran away. Suddenly the ownersappeared and foundthe monkey trying torun away. But he has along tail and it wasstopping him. The owners followedhim, shouting:Stop! Stop!We saw you, you arethe monkey. But they caught himand started beatinghim. He couldn't stand thepain so he said:I was with my friendrabbit. He is the onewho invited me. But the owners cut histail off and told him:Go and tell your friendthat we cut off your tail! Then they went to therabbit's house andcooked the monkey'stail to eat.The rabbit invited themonkey for lunch. At the end of the mealthe rabbit asked themonkey if he knewwhat he had eaten.The foolish monkeyanswered: No, I don't! The rabbit told him thathe had eaten his owntail and then ran away.And from then on theybecame enemies!

Sukhiya Kaka lived in a village called Bitauna. Bitauna was famous all over Rajasthan for its singers. No celebration was complete without Sukhiya Kaka's sweet songs.Today he had been invited to village Jhalaura. Sukhiya Kaka twirled his big moustache and set off.He was singing raag Malhar.... Come to me o rolling clouds... Suddenly, he heard, dhupp dhupp dhupp dhupp!Was someone giving a beat to his song?Dinoo, the dinosuar came running towards him. Sukhiya Kaka was so happy to see him! You don't get such a BIG listener every day!... Come to me o rolling clouds, shower me with lovely rain!Sukhiya Kaka and Dinoo sang a duet and did a little jig to keep time. The clouds just had to listen to them!Lightning flashed and the wind danced. Dark clouds came rolling in.Sukhiya Kaka and Dinoo laughed with joy. As the rain came pouring down, Sukhiya Kaka and Dinoo shared a small umbrella. Then off they went to Jhalaura following the smell of yummy pakoras, singing... O thank you for the lovely rain... O..la la la. Dear Reader,Have you ever seen a dinosaur?Do you think they would have sung songs?What do you like to do in the rain?What do you like to eat when it rains?

Tara could not sit still! The train seemed to be going very slowly. Tara peered out through the window. Lights winked from windows in tall buildings.As everyone in the bogey prepared to sleep, one passenger asked Tara, “Beti, I hope you are not running away from home?”“No, no!” said Tara. Early in the morning, Tara got off the train at Meenapur. She walked towards the banks of the river Ganga and got into a crowded boat.“Who could this girl be, travelling all alone?” wondered many people on the boat.As Tara got out, the boatman asked, “Have you run away from home?”Tara smiled and said, “No, no, sir, I am going home!” Tara came to a forest. She took out her camera. A deer looked at her and seemed to be asking what she was doing there! Tara aimed her camera and clicked.“I've come home, dear deer, I've come home to the village of my ancestors.” As the sun set, Tara started walking on a rope bridge. The bridge swung gently with her steps. She smiled as she thought of what awaited her on the other side. Once on the other side, Tara stopped to take out her map and plan her way forward. She closed her eyes and took a deep breath.Ah, the earthy smell of green trees and plants in this forest was lovely! Tara made a small bonfire. She ate some food that she had packed and settled down under the sky. Stars twinkled like friends. Tomorrow she would cross the forest by foot, and then take a bus to the village where her great grandparents lived.For today, Tara Prakash, famous wildlife photographer, was just going to sleep under the stars and dream about home. Dear Reader,Have you tried counting the stars? How many stars do you think you can count?If you had to stay alone in a forest, name some of the things that you should have with you.Which are the days in a month when stars are most visible to the eye? Why?

One day we saw a strange black cloud move in from far away.It was a swarm of locusts, headed for our village. The locusts attacked farms and ate the crops. We tried to chase the locusts away.But they would not go. We made noises and screamed, "Wuwi, wuwi!"But the locusts would not go. We hit tins and metal pots.But the locusts would not go. We lit fires to chase the locusts away.But they would not go. They settled on trees.Branches broke because of the weight of all the locusts. Then we remembered that roasted locusts are good to eat!Everyone started to collect the locusts in sacks and nets. Children brought gourds and filled them with locusts. We roasted locusts and fried them.We even dried locusts for the cold season.But still, there were so many locusts. Then, the next morning, the locusts flew away. The cloud left our village. When the farmers saw their farms, they moaned loudly: "Our farms are destroyed!"The villagers cried, "What will we eat this year? What have the locusts left us?"

Baby Thangwang likes to talk.GAA! GEE! GLUG GLUG, he says.Bhalluka, the brown bear likes to talk too.GRRRR. GROOOOOWWWW.KHURRR.Baby Thangwang and Bhalluka the bear like to talk to each other. One day, Thangwang lost his little red toy. He began to cry. Don't cry please, said Bhalluka!HA- HOO, HOO-HA! GRR-GROO!Bhalluka's tummy went in and out when he talked.Thangwang looked at the tummy and tapped it – TAP-TAP-TAP. TAPP! THUPP! That made Bhalluka burp. Loudly! BURP BURPPPPPP!And out came many things that he had put into his mouth. OOPS! Out came the little red top.TONGG - it hit Thangwang on the head.TIDDINGGGG - it fell near Baby Thangwang's little feet. Baby Thangwang and Bhalluka the bear began to laugh. They were so happy that they began to sing loudly.GLUG-GRRR GAA-GAA-KHURR KHURR, GLUG-GRRR, GAA-GAA-KHURR khurr... and then they went to sleep.(Thangwang slept for a night. Bhalluka slept for five months!) What Do We Know About Bears?In India, there are three kinds of bears - The Himalayan Black Bear, The Brown Bear and The Sloth Bear. The bear in this book looks like a brown bear.Bears like fresh growing shoots of grass. They also like fruits like apples, peaches and mulberries. Though brown bears do kill goats and other animals, they usually do not attack human beings.During winter in cold places, bears in the wild do not get enough to eat. What do they do then? They just go to sleep for a very long time! This long sleep is called hibernation. They can sleep without eating, drinking or - even going to the bathroom - for more than 100 days!

Grannies come in many sizes,And they give us funny surprises!Did you know my granny juggles?With her, I like to snuggle! A great spotter of things is she,She's not one to let things be!An expert at tossing everything in sight,People around get quite a fright! Kitchens, office, the street or the market,She juggles everywhere and cannot stop it!It's hard for her to check herself,No one dares to offer her help! Umbrellas and glasses go flying in the air,Spoiltsports now begin to stare!Juicy mangoes land with a splash,Grandfather's teeth begin to gnash! Coloured balls he brings as a gift,Says, “Toss them all without a twist!”Granny blushes and feels quite shy,That she has this lovely gift to try! Grandfather now sleeps through the night,Granny juggles till the morning light!Her shadow dances on the curtain,She's the best, I am certain! Dear Reader,Have you ever seen jugglers in a circus?What do they throw in the air?Do you think it is possible to juggle with items like the ones used by this granny?

Why haven't you done your homework?Miss, it's all the cat's fault. If she had not got stuck on the tree, I would not have taken the ladder to climb it. If I had not taken the ladder to climb it, I would not have needed to fix it.If I had not needed to fix it, I wouldn't have woken up the baby. If I had not woken up the baby, my mother would not have rushed out of the kitchen.If my mother had not rushed out of the kitchen, the monkey would not have got in. If the monkey had not got in, he would not have eaten up all the food.If he had not eaten up all the food, my father would not have bought rotis and chicken curry at the tea-shop. If my father had not bought rotis and chicken curry at the tea-shop, the dog would not have followed him home. If the dog had not followed him home, he would not have eaten my homework. So, you're saying the dog ate your homework? Yes, Miss, it's all the cat's fault!

Chicken and Millipede were friends. But they were always competing with each other. One day they decided to play football to see who the best player was. They went to the football field and started their game. Chicken was fast, but Millipede was faster. Chicken kicked far, but Millipede kicked further. Chicken started to feel grumpy. They decided to play a penalty shoot-out. First Millipede was goal keeper. Chicken scored only one goal. Then it was the chicken's turn to defend the goal. Millipede kicked the ball and scored.Millipede dribbled the ball and scored. Millipede headed the ball and scored. Millipede scored five goals. Chicken was furious that she lost. She was a very bad loser. Millipede started laughing because his friend was making such a fuss. Chicken was so angry that she opened her beak wide and swallowed the millipede. As Chicken was walking home, she met Mother Millipede. Mother Millipede asked, "Have you seen my child?" Chicken didn't say anything.Mother Millipede was worried. Then Mother Millipede heard a tiny voice. "Help me mom!" cried the voice. Mother Millipede looked around and listened carefully. The voice came from inside the chicken. Mother Millipede shouted, "Use your special power my child!" Millipedes can make a bad smell and a terrible taste. Chicken began to feel ill. Chicken burped. Then she swallowed and spat. Then she sneezed and coughed. And coughed. The millipede was disgusting! Chicken coughed until she coughed out the millipede that was in her stomach. Mother Millipede and her child crawled up a tree to hide. From that time, chickens and millipedes were enemies.

Once upon a time, a little boy named Eissa was athome. He did not like to listen. One day his parentsgave him a song,"Never eat x2, without washing,your hands. Never eat without washing your hands".Eissa didn't want to listen at all, so he ignored hisparents. Neither did his sister Aysha He ran into a big lion on the way to the forest. He said "Release me and i will give you purefruit that does not need to be washed at all." "Really? What type of fruit." Asked Eissa. "Okay. I will set you free" said Eissa. "On condition you give me a pure fruit" said Eissa. Thelion was very happy and gave Eissa a pure apple. Eissa ate the apple happily andwent home not thinking about it. Hesoon got stomach upset. Hisparents and siblings saw that therewas something wrong with him.Eissa was pretending not to be sickA few days passed and his stomachupset did not stop at all. He finallytold his parents about his issues."Did you eat anything bad?" askedhis mother. ?Did you eat somethingbad?" "Why did you eat that fruit Eissa?" His elder brothersKen and Sean asked him." A lion told me that it wasclean and..." said Eissa before Ken interrupted him."Wait! Let me get this strait! YOU SPOKE TO A LION"said Ken. "HAHAHAHAH" his brothers burst intolaughter. Eissa felt very ashamed, embarrassed andsad. He ran to his room and banged the door angrily. 'Why do they make fun of me. Why.I feel so embarrassed. I wish i hadnever accepted to eat that applethe talking lion gave me"

There was once a lady of 89, who loved juggling. Well, guess what? She juggled with donkeys, books, toys and everything she would find. Isn't that crazy? Yesterday she did this, I'll tell you about that day. It all started on a Sunday morning at 6 o'clock. She dreamed that: she went to her great grand son's class and juggled with everything. OMG did she laugh! But there was a problem, she wanted to make the dream true! OH No! Shouted her husband when he heard the news. Her husband was 91 years old. When she went to drop her great grand son, she asked him: My dear child, could I come to your school today? Her great grandson got scared....... He also knew about his great grandmom. But what could he do? So he said ok she was overjoyed to hear that I love you she said. After they reached OH what a drama happened, this is what happened: she juggled with books, toys etc when the teacher came, she saw that every one was crying.What happened? she asked. All the children whined and said: SHE and pointed at her. What happened aunty? She asked to his great grandmom. I juggled with their stuff she said. Ooh so that's the thing said the teacher. The teacher said: If you like juggling, why don't you juggle for us on our annual day? asked the teacher. Sure she said, but for now I will get chocolates for them.THE END

It is November.I am dreaming of Diwali. Amma says it is the Festival Of Lights. My Grandma read me a book about Diwali.The book said Diwali is celebrated because Goodness won over Evil. My Grandma says if I do good things, I win too.So I always share my things with my friends. Amma, Appa and I went to buy new clothes for DiwaliI bought a few dresses in my favorite colors. Amma and Appa made a lot of yummy food!Mixture, chakli, ladoo, barfi and even chocolate cake. My favorite is the ribbon pakoda and Peda. Make the Diwali Peda Recipe!Ingredients:Sweet condensed milk – 1 can (14 oz)Milk powder – 3 cupsGhee or clarified butter – 1/4 cupSaffron – 2-3 strandsLuke warm water – 3 tbspsLuke warm milk – 3 tbspsFood color - few drops (colors of your choice)Steps:Soak the saffron in luke warm water for 5 minutesMix the sweet condensed milk, milk powder and the soaked saffron with water in microwave safe bowl.Mix well and microwave for a minute.Now add the ghee and milk and mix well.Let it microwave for 3 minutes and keep stirring it for every one minute.Don't leave it without stirring for more than 1.5 minutes.Let it cool down for about 20 minutes.Now makes balls out of the cooked mixture and make your desired shapes. Tomorrow is Diwali! We decorate our house with Torans. We then decided to make a big kolam. On Diwali day, I woke up first. Appa and Amma were surprised.I even washed my hair without crying. I wore my new dress.Amma wore a saree.Appa and I helped her with the pleats. Appa said Amma looked like a queen. I thought she looked like a Princess! We ate all the yummy food.I also helped Amma take some goodies to my friend's house. In the evening, we took out the decorated diyas and lit them.Amma Appa asked me to be careful. Then we went to light some sparklers.Our house looked so beautiful. It was the best Diwali we celebrated!

" Amma, I want a new kind of celebration said Mili to her mother.Amma looked at her older brother and they smiled as they had decided that this time it will not be the cakes, balloons, or the usual decorations.This time Mili will have her home decorated like it is done for Deepavali, just as Mili finds it the happiest festival in the year. Soon Anna (older brother) got ready with the decorations of putting a new toran at the door, flowers strung on the walls, windows and Amma started keeping the diya's ready for the evening.As the clock struck 6'o clock in the evening her home was looking beautiful as though it was Deepavali on her birthday. Suddenly she saw the entire neighborhood were lighting diyas and children were getting ready to come to Mili's house. " Oh wow," Mili thought to herself. It was really beautiful. The entire street was looking glittering with traditional decorations. Everyone was happy to celebrate Mili's birthday. Her friends came with mithai's, dressed in traditional Indian attire and everyone had a great time.There was antakshari competition, laddoo eating competition, best Indian dressed child. Amma had made small packets of beautiful diyas to be given as gifts to the children who won. Everyone had fun. Mili felt this was her most special birthday.

One day Vihaan wanted to play. Vihaan is a small baby and cannot talk. So he started crying. His Mamma heard him cry and thought of something to make Vihaan laugh. So she called the BooBoo Bear! The BooBoo bear was a jolly golly lolly-loving bear! So Vihaan's Mamma gave him a lolly and asked him to meet Vihaan. BooBoo laughed and went to meet little Vihaan! He carried MushyMushy, his pet mushroom with him. "VIHAAN, look!," said BooBoo. "Meet my lushy wushy MushyMushy!" BooBoo threw MushyMushy in the air as Vihaan looked. Boinggggg! Zoinnggggg! Toingggg! fell Mushy-Mushy on Vihaan's round head and on the ground. Vihaan looked at it and THEN.... WAAAAAAAAAAA! BAAAAAAAAAA! GAAAAAAAAA! he cried. Vihaan's Papa came running and kissed Vihaan's doly roly poly head. WAAAAAAAAAAA! BAAAAAAAAAA! GAAAAAAAAA! he cried. Vihaan's Mamma came running and kissed Vihaan's doly roly poly head. WAAAAAAAAAAA! BAAAAAAAAAA! GAAAAAAAAA! he cried. Vihaan's Aachi came running and kissed Vihaan's doly roly poly head. Aachi then whispered something in BooBoo bear's ritty-mitty-gritty ears. "Don't cry Vihaan!," said BooBoo. "Why don't we sing a rappy-jappy-happy SONG!," he said. Vihaan stopped crying and looked at BooBoo with his big beautiful eyes. So BooBoo started singing this song:Gooshy Booshy Looooty hoi ik laaaaaanchThen the Booboo bear said No No No!Then the Booboo bear said Dont cry cryGooshy booshy looty hoi ik laaanch! 'HOHOHO HIHIHI!,' laughed Vihaan! 'HIRHIRHIR! HARHARHAR!' laughed BooBoo!'Heeheehee Teeheeeheee!' laughed Mushy-Mushy'HAHAHA HAHAHA' laughed Mamma, Papa and Aachi!

Toto loved animals. He worked in a zoo.One day he saw that Gogo, the gorilla's cage was empty.Toto was shocked. He set off to find him. Gogo must have run towards the jungle, thought Toto.He looked behind every bush and tree.The animals in the forest watched Toto.But Toto could not find Gogo anywhere. Toto whipped out his field glasses.He scanned the area across the river.Was Gogo on the other side? Gogo was not to be found.Toto took a deep breath and dived into the river.What if Gogo was holding his breath and hiding underwater? Moti, the dog took pity on him.He barked and looked towards the store nearby.Ah! Toto finally had a lead. Toto flung open the door of the store.There was Gogo, happily munching on bananas. What a big mess Gogo had made!Toto just stared at him, not able to say a word! Dear Reader,Would you like to work in a zoo?What would be the most fun to do, if you worked in a zoo?How many bananas do you think a gorilla can eat in one sitting?How many bananas do you eat?

Ammu did not have a puppy.But she told everyone in school that she did. "My puppy's name is Shankar," she told Venu."Shankar eats bananas," she told Abdul."Shankar is black," she told Kumari."Shankar plays ball with me," she told Unni. So Venu, Abdul, Kumari, and Unni told Ammu that they would come home.To see Shankar. Ammu shook her head."You can't," she said. "Why?" they asked."Because Shankar is scared of crowds," said Ammu."Then we'll play with him one by one," said Kumari. "You can't," Ammu said."Why?" asked Unni."Because we're going out today," said Ammu. "Then we'll come tomorrow," said Abdul."We'll bring bananas for him," said Venu."We'll play with him one by one," said Kumari."Okay," said Ammu. She didn't know what else to say. That evening, Ammu asked Achan if he would buy a puppy for her." We'll see," said Achan."But it's urgent," said Ammu. Achan laughed. Ammu didn't eat dinner. She felt sick. She didn't want to think about tomorrow.In the morning, Amma said, "You look ill."She touched Ammu's forehead. A fever! "Stay at home today," Amma said.So Ammu skipped school.She lay in bed all day. She didn't smile at all.All she ate was a slice of bread. In the evening, Venu, Abdul, Kumari, and Unni came home."Why didn't you come to school today?" asked Unni."I am sick," said Ammu. "We saw Shankar," said Abdul."Where?" asked Ammu."In the garden," said Kumari. "He didn't want to play ball," said Abdul.Suddenly, Ammu got up from bed. She ran outside. It was true. There was a puppy in her garden. Shankar!"But he's not black," said Venu. "He's brown.'""Oh," said Ammu. "I made that up!" "He's not afraid of crowds," said Abdul."Oh," said Ammu. "I made that up!" "He doesn't like playing ball," said Unni."Oh," said Ammu. "I made that up!" "But he loves bananas," said Kumari."I told you, didn't I?" smiled Ammu happily.

It was the middle of the summer holidays. "Look, Malu!" yelled Moidootty. "Giant, juicy mangoes! How I wish I could have a few!" sighed Moidootty. "Hmm..." said Malu. "What we need is a demon. He can shake the tree and make it rain mangoes! So they ran back home to see what their grandmother's magical recipe book had to say about calling demons."Look! Here's just the spell we need," cried Malu. "Boil a nail and some keys,Add some money, if you please.. "Now top it with some rice and dice.Your demon will be here in a trice!" Suddenly, a loud rumble shook the house. Malu and Moidootty ran outside. The sky had turned green and the sun had gone white! Then a bolt of silver lightning shot through the sky. And a loud, scary voice echoed from the clouds. "Who dares to wake up Aamasura?!" roared the demon. "A-Ha! I smell mangoes! I have not had mangoes in centuries! Now I wont stop until I've eaten every single one!" Aamasura opened his mouth wide and began to swallow everything around him. He even gobbled up the clouds in the sky! "OH NO!" cried the children. "Why did we meddle with magic? Now that Aamasura has eaten all the clouds, he will gobble up every single mango on the tree. And then...." "Look!" shouted Malu. "There goes Ummumma! She can help us out!" The children ran to their grandmother and told her everything.Ummumma laughed. "Aamasura may look big and scary. But all demons are afraid of water! They simply cant bear to be clean! Ummumma flicked her blue sari across the sky... .... and rain clouds began to appear. And then it began to rain! "AAAARRRGGHH!! I'm wet! I'm cold! I'm clean! How horrible!!" BAM! Aamasura vanished in a flash of white light. And Moidootty ran to catch the mangoes as they fell from the tree.

In Miwa Forest, there livedMonkey who was always sad.Every time she had a baby, itdied. The pain of losing her babiesmade Monkey jump up anddown.She would jump to one branch,then to another, and cry out,"Kwi! Kwi! Kwi!" Monkey was always sad.She was sadder when she sawother monkey parents with theirbabies. The sad Monkey would sit on abranch and look up!Days passed and Monkey criedmore and more. Then she gave birth again.She decided to take the baby tothe path so that people passingby would see the baby and wishit well. Monkey climbed down from thebranch and put the baby on thepath.At that time, a hunter wasreturning home.He saw the baby monkey lyingon the side of the path. The hunter carried the babymonkey to his house.When the hunter reachedhome, his three boys wanted tohold the baby monkey. The three boys played singing:"Throw it up!Throw it down!Throw it to me!Throw it to him!"The baby monkey was thrownfrom one child to the other. As the three boys played withthe baby monkey, motherMonkey was hiding in a treewatching.She was afraid that this babywould also die like the others. Then the hunter's wife cameand saw her children playingwith the little monkey.She said, "Be careful! Bring ithere. You will drop it!" She took the baby monkey inher arms, and blessed it. The hunter's wife put the babymonkey down.Mother Monkey held her babyto her chest.She disappeared up the tree.She never lost another baby!

Once upon a time there was a Princess who lived in a palace near the forest . She loved to walk in the forest and gather the beautiful flowers growing in the forest. One day when she was walking in the forest she lost her way. It was dark and thick bushes and creepers grew all around. She was afraid and lookedaround for help. Suddenly she saw a lion looking at her from behind the bushes. She was frightened and screamed "Help Help " and started to run away. The Lion called out to her :"Princess, don't be afraid . I'm a veggy lion. I eat only grass and herbs. I will not hurt you. Please don't run away ". The Princess was surprised and walked up to the lion . "Oh gentle lion, I have lost my way in the forest . Will you help me return to the palace? " she asked . The Lion said, " Surely , dear Princess , I will bring my friend, the elephant, here.He will help us find the way . Please stay here ". He then brought the elephant . The elephant carried the princess on his back, through the woods and reached the palace."Thank you dear elephant ", said the Princess. Will you be my royal elephant from now on? "The elephant joyfully agreed. The Princess then asked the lion to stay in the palace with her . The lion also agreed .The lion and the elephant lived in a beautiful garden, near the palace , happily ever after.

There was a dark jungle. It was a big dark jungle.There were lots of trees and anarrow path.Many animals and birds livedhere. One day, all the animals came together."Did you hear?" asked Tota, the parrot."Yes," said Hirni, the deer."What?" asked Darpok, the rabbit."We have a school in the jungle," answeredZhoola, the monkey.Mota, the elephant wondered, "Hmph?"Lamboo, the giraffe said, "Oh, good!"Dheema, the snail squealed, "Hurry, let's go!" Tota, the parrot flew ahead.Zhoola, the monkey jumped from tree to tree.Poorakha, the python slithered fast."Here!" shouted Tota. "Can you read?""It is upside down, I think," said Zhoolahanging by the branch.Poorakha concluded, "Hisssss. No one canread." Soon, all the other friends joined them.Lamboo looked over the tree."No one here," he said.Zhoola repeated, "No one here."Tota proposed, "Look carefully!"Pilloo, the little bear declared, "I found aroom!" "I found a swing", announced Dheema."What are these blocks?" Darpok wanted toknow."What is this?" was Zhoola's question.Poorakha explained, "I believe, this is a pencil." Moto and Lamboo found a classroom.They called the others, "Look, what is this?"Everyone came with school bags.They began shouting, "Teacher! Teacher!Where is our teacher?"No one knew. Then they heard a roar.They heard a loud roar.They heard a louder roar.Poorakha was worried.Dheema was scared.Tota hid behind the board.Lamboo and Zhoola were puzzled. Who is this?"Hup!" said Zhoola the monkey.No one spoke.They all looked at the teacher.Up and down carefully.Then they looked at one another. The teacher turned to write on the black board."Jump," said Zhoola."Fly! said Tota.Thump, thump, thump ran Mota."Run, run run fast," screamed Dheema."Bhagoooo," they all shouted together.When the teacher turned...There was no one in the class.

Illustrators: Sonal Goyal, Sumit SakhujaAsha was a very clever girl. She helped her mother in the kitchen and in the garden, looked after her younger brother and was always early to school.However she had one bad habit!She always chewed her pencils right up to the end.Her mother tried to correct her," Asha, it is wrong to chew pencils. You will spoil your health"But Asha loved the taste of the wood and the black lead inside. Chew..chew...chewHer father tried to break the habit, "Asha it is a bad habit . You will fall sick." But Asha continued to chew...chew..chew..Asha's parents went to school one day and told the teacher of her habit of chewing pencils.Mrs. Shanthi was a kind teacher and thought of a way to change Asha.The next day was the class picnic. Mrs. Shanthi took all the children to a pencil factory. The children were very happy to see the pencils in different colours!Red!Blue!Yellow!Green!The pencils were so pretty!Mrs. Shanthi then took them to a place in the pencil factory where there was a big pile of trees on the floor."Children, do you see these trees?""Yes Miss", they all shouted." This is where your pencils come from"The children were very surprised."Do pencils come from trees"? they asked."Yes" "Every pencil you buy or break represents a tree that has been cut to make new pencils"" The more pencils we use, the more trees we are destroying. One day we will not have any trees left"On the way back home in the bus, Asha was very quiet.Every tree she saw looked like hundreds of pencils in her mind!In a few days there was a big change in Asha. Can you guess what?Asha did not chew pencils anymore!

Once upon a time, Hen andEagle were friends. They livedin peace with all the other birds.None of them could fly. One day, there was famine inthe land. Eagle had to walk veryfar to find food. She came backvery tired."There must be an easier wayto travel!" said Eagle. After a good night's sleep, Henhad a brilliant idea. She begancollecting the fallen feathersfrom all their bird friends."Let's sew them together on topof our own feathers," she said."Perhaps that will make it easierto travel." Eagle was the only one in thevillage with a needle, so shestarted sewing first.She made herself a pair ofbeautiful wings and flew highabove Hen.Hen borrowed the needle butshe soon got tired of sewing.She left the needle on thecupboard and went into thekitchen to prepare food for herchildren. But the other birds had seenEagle flying away. They askedHen to lend them the needle tomake wings for themselves too.Soon there were birds flying allover the sky. When the last bird returned theborrowed needle, Hen was notthere. So her children took theneedle and started playing withit.When they got tired of thegame, they left the needle inthe sand. Later that afternoon, Eaglereturned. She asked for theneedle to fix some feathers thathad loosened on her journey.Hen looked on the cupboard.She looked in the kitchen. Shelooked in the yard. But theneedle was nowhere to befound. "Just give me a day," Henbegged Eagle. "Then you canfix your wing and fly away toget food again.""Just one more day," said Eagle."If you can't find the needle,you'll have to give me one ofyour chicks as payment." When Eagle came the next day,she found Hen scratching in thesand, but no needle.So Eagle flew down very fastand caught one of the chicks.She carried it away.Forever after that, wheneverEagle appears, she finds Henscratching in the sand for theneedle. As the shadow of Eagle's wingfalls on the ground, Hen warnsher chicks. "Get out of the bareand dry land."And they respond:"We are not fools. We will run."

Keke sat on her swing.She loved her swing.It was the best swing at herschool. Keke moved slowly on herswing.Backwards and forwards.Backwards and forwards.When Keke moved, her swingwent faster and faster.Soon she was right at the top. Keke looked down at theground.She was very high up."Aeei," she called, "Look howhigh I am!" She was happy to be so high.She could see the whole village.She was nearly as high as birdsflying over the cornfields. After a while Keke wanted tocome down.The swing would not stop."Oh, oh, oh," she called."I don't know how to stop thisswing!" The swing went on and on.Up and down, up and down.Keke was frightened."Where will this swing take me?I might go up to the moon.I must get off!" she cried. So Keke let go of the swing.She fell down, down, down. "Oh, oh, oh," cried the otherchildren.Keke fell to the ground.She hurt her head."Eeeeh, eeeeh, eeeh," shecried.The other children were veryworried. Keke did not know what to do."Eeeeh, eeeeh, eeeh," she criedagain.The children called theirteacher."Ma Mpho. Please come!" theycalled."Keke fell off the swing. She hashurt her head." Ma Mpho ran to the swing.She picked Keke up off theground. Ma Mpho kissed Keke's head.Keke smiled, "That's betternow.""I will not go on that swing bymyself again," she said."I never want to go to themoon." "Next time I will be with you onyour swing, Keke," said MaMpho."We can go to the moontogether!"

Once upon a time there was a tiger who live in a cave. He was the scariest tiger, when anybody will come, he will be so silent then when they come near him he will ROAR!!!!!!!! so loudly so the rocks of the cave fall down that the prey can't go anywhere. There were deers who came inside the tiger cave so the deers got scared and said HELP!!!!!!.Then after some time tiger got up and said WHY DID YOU COME HERE!!?. Then the deer said I've come here because my dad said to bring some water from the cave. The second animal of coming inside the cave is a lion he was handsome and friendly.When he saw the tiger he was happy because the lion and tiger were best friend.The lion said lets wait for one more animal. then the tiger said why?. Then the lion said we can play with them , oh ya said tiger. The third animal of coming inside the cave was a elephant , the elephant was happy because he saw the deers, tiger and lion then after sometime he said LETS DO PARTY!!!!then the deers , tiger, elephant and lion said OKAY!!!!!! They enjoyed party.

Long, long time ago, there livedHare and Elephant.Hare was clever and cunning.Elephant was slow and vain. One day, Hare went to themarket and bought a pair ofbeautiful shoes made of iron.On his way home, Hare metElephant.Elephant liked Hare's shoes somuch that he asked Hare totake him to the place where hebought them. Hare said to Elephant, "Youshould get a better pair thanmine, that way you can showoff to the whole village andmake others jealous."Elephant was so excited.Hare and Elephant agreed tomeet the next day at Hare'shome. The following day, Elephantwent to Hare's house.Hare said to him, "Welcome myfriend, come in so we can getyou the best pair of shoes thatno one else has." Elephant was surprised andsaid, "Excuse me my friend, Ithought we were going to themarket to buy the shoes?"Hare answered and said,"Elephant, do you want theshoes or is it the market thatyou want to see?" Elephant calmed down andsaid, "Of course I want shoes.I did not sleep last nightbecause I was thinking of mynew shoes all the time."So Hare led Elephant to theback of the house where he hadlit a huge fire.Hare said to Elephant, "Stand inthe fire so that the shoes canstart forming." Because Elephant was eager tohave the shoes, he did as Haresaid.At first he did not mind the heatof the fire.Then Elephant's hooves beganto burn. He felt a lot of pain butbecause he wanted beautifulshoes, he did not move.As the pain increased, Elephantstarted to cry. Hare said to Elephant, "Stopcrying otherwise the shoes willbe ugly."Elephant quietened down alittle but the pain increased.While tears rolled downElephant's face, Hare secretlylaughed and said, "Stop cryingif you want the shoes." When the pain was too much toput up with, Elephant jumpedout of the fire.Unfortunately, his hooves hadalready burned so he could notwalk.He lay down roaring with pain. Hare went close to Elephant'sear and whispered,"You were so close to havingthe most beautiful pair ofshoes, but now you cannot havethem." It was many months beforeElephant could stand upbecause his hooves were sobadly burnt.They were flat.When he managed to walk, hewas limping. He limped all the way to hishome where his wife andchildren were waiting for him intears.To this day, Elephant still limpsand his hooves are flat.

There was once a cat that pooped stories.She would sit up on a tree without any worries,Settle down after slurping on curry,And poop stories, without any hurry.No, it wasn't the work of elves or fairies;Just a cat that could poop stories! "My cat doesn't always eat just fish!"Explained Aaron to his surprised Miss."Margaret Mallikarjun Chulli-cat?She's not one to just laze on a mat...She finds storybooks, treats them as a dish;Then? EAT, SLEEP, and PUBLISH!" "I tried it once with a Jack Russell Terrier;Made him eat some William Shakespeare...Oh, what a complete and utter disaster,It just came out a lot smellier!Margaret Mallikarjun Chulli-cat, there's no one to beat herWhen it comes to stories right out of her derriere." "I even tried it with a monkey next door...(Or was it that annoying boy in Grade Four?)Well, none of it worked, I can tell you that much,And not a single story was pooped as such!It just went nuts, ate everything in the kitchen,Margaret? Could poop stories even as a kitten!" "So you see Miss, it is a very important matter,That I have to carry this very long ladder.My beloved Margaret Mallikarjun Chulli-cat,I've to bring her down from where she's sat...When she has published after a long session,I have to use the ladder, in the interest of our nation!" "What does that have to do with this sum?"Devidutta-Miss went pale like a dimsum.She wasn't angry, just petrified...Quite simply, she was TERRIFIED!"Thank you for being such a hero,But in maths you'll score a zero!"

Once upon a time, there livedtwo sisters called Nelima andNambuya. Their parents weredead. They lived on bare land.There was neither rain norcrops to eat. Whoever wantedfood had to go a long distanceto find any. Nelima was a humble, quiet andhelpful girl. Her sister Nambuyawas proud and she would notlisten to advice. She did notcare about other people. One day, the two sisters wokeup in the morning and foundthat they had nothing to eat.They had to look for food. SoNelima and Nambuya went offin different directions. Meanwhile, there lived an oldwoman called Netasile. She wasbelieved to be a giver of riches.Netasile had leprosy and herbody was full of sores. Nambuya came across this oldwoman, who called her, "Mydaughter, how are you? Wheredo you come from? Where areyou going?" Nambuya answered all thequestions. Then the old womansaid, "Come carry me to myhouse and I will tell you what todo." Nambuya was rude to thewoman. She said, "I wouldrather die than touch thosedisgusting sores of yours." The old woman kept quiet andwished her a safe journey. Nambuya walked until shereached a strange place. Aplace where there weremillipedes, snakes, caterpillarsand many other insects.Nambuya was very tired andweak because she had noteaten anything. When she satdown to rest, these creaturespreyed on her. On her journey, Nelima came tothe same woman. She washappy to see Netasile, beingthe first person she met sincestarting her journey. The oldwoman called her and askedthe same questions. Nelima agreed to carry Netasileto her house. "You have donewhat many have failed to do,"said the old woman. She gaveNelima a stick and told her togo back home, where she wouldfind everything she wanted. Nelima was very grateful andthanked the old woman and ranback home. She found a newhouse with everything in it, anda lot of food. She became therichest woman in the land. But she mourned for the loss ofher sister and she said, "Onewho did not listen to adviceended up in an elephant'smouth."

Long, long ago there were sevensuns in the sky.Their rays made the earth so hotthat human beings could not bearit. So, the seven brothers belonging toa tribe called the Munda decided tokill the suns.They shot arrows at them and wereable to kill six of the suns. The seventh sun hid behind a hill. Now, with the suns gone, there wasdarkness everywhere.The deer could not see the tigers,the elephants bumped into trees,the rabbits walked over the lionsand there was confusion all around. To find a way out, the animalsdecided to have a meeting.A rabbit told them about one of theseven suns who was still alive andhiding behind a hill.But who would be the best one tocall out to the sun? "I will call out to the sun," said thelion, for he was the king of theforest."Sun, sun, please do not run awayfrom us. Come back in and shine onus," roared the lion.But the sun did not listen to him. The elephant called out next.He raised his trunk and trumpeted,"Sun, sun, please come back," butthe sun did not listen to him. The beautiful peacock danced andpleaded, "Sun, sun, please comeback," but the sun refused to comeout.One after the other, all the animalscalled out to the sun, but he did notlisten to any of them.Finally, a rooster offered to call thesun. Everybody laughed. The lionwas a fair leader. He said, "Therooster should be allowed to try." The rooster stepped forward andgently crowed, "Kookoodokoo koo."To everyone's surprise, the sunpeeped out a little from behind thehill. The rooster crowed again, this time a little boldly,"KookoodoKOO-KOO..."The sun came up a little higher. The rooster crowedfor the third time. This time it was louder and bolder,"KOOKOODOKOO-KOO..." and the sun rose high andbright.There was light everywhere.The animals were delighted and the humans feltrelieved. The animals asked the humanbeings not to kill the sun and theyagreed.Ever since that day, when therooster crows in the morning, thesun rises and shines in the sky.

Who are you?I am a turtle.What's makes you special?I have the shiniest shell, of all the turtles in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the turtles, I'm the best! Who are you?I am a cheetah.What makes you special?I run the fastest, of all the cheetahs in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the cheetahs, I'm the best! Who are you?I am a whale.What makes you special?I have the biggest tummy, of all the whales in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the whales, I'm the best! Who are you?I am a canary.What makes you special?I have the sweetest voice, of all the canaries in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the canaries, I'm the best! Who are you?I am an elephant.What makes you special?I have the brightest memory, of all the elephants in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the elephants, I'm the best! Who are you?I am a frog.What makes you special?I hop the highest, of all the frogs in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the frogs, I'm the best! Who are you?I am a bee.What makes you special?I make the yummiest honey, of all the bees in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the bees, I'm the best! Who are you?I am a dinosaur.What makes you special?I have the sharpest spikes, of all the dinosaurs in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the dinosaurs I'm the best! Who are you?I am a boy.What makes you special?I am ME. There is only one ME in the world!North, South, East, West,I DON'T have to be better than the rest!

Every weekday morning Jaggee's alarm clock rings at 5 o'clock and every weekday morning he tries to ignore it. "I do not like mornings!" groans Jaggee. But Jaggee has school. He hides under the blankets and pretends that it isn't really morning. He complains. He says nasty things about mornings. "Most of the days I fall back to sleep for a few minutes!", Jaggee says. When his mother wakes him up, Jaggee pretends as if he is fast asleep. Jaggee says, "Even when she yells, I act like I never hear it." After a short time he realizes that he has to get up. Jaggee sighs. "Finally, I struggle out of bed and I start my day", says the young boy. But the minute he pulls through his morning routine and enters school, everything changes. He is a different person! School is where his home is. His friends welcome him shouting his name. He loves his teachers and awaits his favourite subject- Math. After school, Jaggee plays happily with his neighbours. At night, as he goes to bed, he secretly wishes that the next day, he goes to school directly and does not have to wake up in the morning.

It was a rainy Sunday evening. My mom did not let me go outside. I was told to do my homework. I sat sadly and wondered about my boring life. Get up in the morning, do your homework, go to your classes, eat food and sleep! Nothing was exciting or new. Then abruptly the bell rang. I went to see who it was. It was dad as expected. I went to the store room to find something fun. And you know what!!! I found a broken robot! with my dad's help, I fixed the robot. at first this robot was no use. But then I named it as Tracey Roger. Roger played with me all day. Sometimes Roger even did my homework. He did all my work. But once Roger was going to the market to buy my brother a gift for his birthday and he slipped on the stairs. My hard work was again wasted! I saw how all pieces again fell apart. I ran to my parents' room but they were not inside. My brother was hosting his birthday party and my grandma was free. Wait a minute! My grandma was free!!! I took a long breadth and approached her. I asked her to help me. She just sat and gave me a dead stare. She then abruptly agreed and then we started off! After 15 attempts, finally we did it! I thanked her for helping me. And then Roger again became my best friend. Trrrr trrrr!!!!!!! My alarm rang. I woke up and realised this was a dream! Oh! What was I thinking! Whatever it was I wish it was reality and from now on I will always do my homework on my own!

In the village of Bagnebaghursiddim, there lives a girl named Tiya. She has a pet named Tofu. You will be thinking he is a dog or a cat, but no it is an elephant. She really loves it and her happiness is in Tofu's happiness. Tofu was very good at running and was faster than everyone in Bagnebaghursiddim. Faster than Mr. Kamparrot, Mr. Deergo and even faster than Mr. Sherkhan. One day , there was a running competition held in Badarsikhwaserdem. Tofu asked Tiya if he can participate in the competition and as expected she allowed. They both set of early in the morning. As they reached Badarsikhwaserdem , Tofu started practising hard. Tiya encouraged him and told him to take rest. Tomorrow was a big day for Tofu. They felt very tired. Tofu ate a hearty breakfast and set off with Tiya. When they reached the place where the tournament was held, Tofu saw that the elephants participating were much bigger than him. He got very frightened and told Tiya he would quit the contest. Tiya told him that 'Tofu respect is very important and, if you quit the contest you will loose respect. But, if you stand and try your best you will gain respect not loose it '. Tofu then , tried his best in the competition and won the race. Tofu then realized that trying is better than being scared.

Once there was a boy named Nadir. He lived in Adyar, Chennai. He was very adventurous and he was a very lively boy. One day he wanted a pet so he asked his parents but they refused. So one day he was playing with his friends and he found a helpless horse and he took it home. Nadir named it Faraz. They both had many adventures together. He bought designer clothes for Faraz.Faraz loved to wear them. The shawl was made from golden threads. The borders were made up of golden lining. The dress for Faraz did not cost anything because Nadir's mother was a tailor who could stitch very good.But one day evil had fallen on them. The next night turned out to be Amavasya(night with no moon). A group of thieves arrived to Nadir's place and stole Faraz. The next morning Nadir woke up and found the ugly surprise that was waiting for him. He went to the police station and filed a FIR in no time. They located Faraz in eight months. The address was Vettuvankeni 139 East Coast Road. The drive was of 25 minutes. When they reached there they saw that the thieves were going to cut Faraz but the police took hold of the situation and saved Faraz. Nadir thanked them a lot and never ever kept Faraz out of his home.Moral: Never treat animals differently treat them like humans.

One day Little Dog wasplaying with a ball. He saw a cat.He said, "Hello, LittleCat. Can I play withyou?"Little Cat said,"I will play with you.Can I play with yourball?" "Yes," said Little Dog."It is a red ball. I willkick it to you and youcan hit it back to me." So the two little friendsbegan to play.Little Dog said, "I like toplay with you. It is fun.You are a good friend." The big red ball wentover the wall. Little Catbegan to cry."We do not have a ballto play with." "I like to play with thebig red ball," said LittleCat.Little Cat began to cryand cry. "I will get the ball," saidLittle Dog and hejumped over the wall. Soon he was back withthe ball.Little Cat was happythat it was back.The two friends playedand played. Little Dog said, "Cometo my house and let uslook at a picture book."In the picture book,they saw a little dogplay ball with a littlecat!

I am a body of water. I am long. I go from here to there.There is a riddle about me.Read what I can do.Can you guess who I am? I am big. I am bigger than a stream. I have lot of water. My water is used for drinking.They say I always run. I never walk.My water moves from here to there. They say I flow. I have a mouth. But I never eat. I can't even talk. You hear the sound when I flow.I move soil and small rocks. I help move logs of wood.I do so much work but I don't have hands. I have a bed. But I don't sleep. I am always awake.I am always moving.I make soil. I make valleys.My water is sweet. Let me tell you again. I have no legs but I can run.I can't eat or talk but I have a mouth.I have a long bed but I never sleep.I have a bank but there is no money in it. Did you guess who am I? A river! I am a river.Do you know some names I have?

Ajao, a bat, lay in his house very ill.There was no one to attend to him. Then, Ajao died. The neighbours said, "Ajao is dead. We must call his relations to come and bury him." The neighbours went and called the birds saying, "A relative of yours is dead." The birds came and saw that it was Ajao.They said, "This animal is not part of our family." "All our family have feathers but Ajao has none. So, he is not one of us."The birds went away. The neighbours reasoned together. They agreed, "The birds are right. Ajao has no feathers. So, he is not their relative." One of them said, "He must be part of the family of rats. He looks like them." The neighbours went and called the rats saying, "One of your family is dead." The rats came and saw that it was Ajao.They said, "This animal is not part of our family." "Everyone in our family has a tail. Ajao has no tail."The rats went away. No relations were found for Ajao and he remained unburied.

Once there was a bee whose name was Stripey. Stripey did not know how to make honey. He thought that bees get readymade honey from somewhere or find it inside something but didn't know where. So Stripey started looking for it inside a twig, he broke it but found sap inside, that didn't taste wee bit like honey. Then he tore a paper, popped a balloon, peeled open an orange but no honey came out. Stripey thought that maybe bees only give out honey. So he did all kind of bee dance, all kind of movements he had never done before. But that didn't work either. So he went to the Bee bookstore and searched for books which tell how to make honey. He searched and searched and luckily found a magic book that tells you how to make honey. He bought that book, took it home and started reading it. He read the ingredients first. This is how you make honey. So Stripey read.Things you'll need:Nectar from flowersBee saliva and most important of allHard workGo to a flower which has nectar, suck the nectar with your long tongue, put it in the honey stomach ( a stomach where you store honey), out of bee saliva make the cells of the bee hive, then throw up the honey into the cells and seal it with the wax. Finally , Stripey could make honey on his own. He no more had to go to Bee restaurant to have his honey breakfast, lunch and supper. Stripey was overjoyed that he could make his own food, his own honey.THE END

Everytime I finish my hot, hotbath.My wet body feels so cool, coolcool.What makes that happen?Vayu, the wind! The milk in my cup - too hot,too hot.But soon it is ready for me togulp.Who makes that happen?Vayu, the wind! The window curtains flutter andgently brush my face.Who makes it happen?Vayu, the wind! A bolt of lightning far away.Black clouds moving my way.Who makes that happen?Vayu, the wind! Branches sway and leavestremble.Flowers gently fall.Who did it all?Vayu, the wind! Far from the house, we areplaying, yet, I can smell thesweets mother is preparing.Who makes it happen?Vayu, the wind! A glass tumbler on a windowsill,crashes on the ground.I am glad I was not around.Who played this mischief?Of course, it was Vayu, thewind! A whistle blows. A train rolls in.I cannot see, but hear its din.Who makes that happen?Vayu, the wind! Cannot be seen.Cannot be heard.Does all the work without aword.Who can it be?Of course!The wind!

Once upon a time, there lived a farmer. He never liked birds as he believed that they will ruin his crop. The farmer always used to stone the birds at sight But the farmer's only son, Sanju was quite opposite to him. He loved birds and would feed them. Farmer used to scold Sanju for this but Sanju never stopped feeding the birds. One day, while going to school, Sanju slipped and fell off. He was injured and could not walk for long. No one was around him to help. A bird saw Sanju and understood that Sanju was having trouble. The bird remembered Sanju helping him. So he also decided to help Sanju. The bird went back to farmer's house and started making a big noise. This irritated the farmer. So the farmer started chasing the bird until he found Sanju lying on the ground helpless. Farmer at once took Sanju to hospital. Sanju then explained everything to his father. Father felt ashamed for his rude behavior. Thereafter he too started liking animals and birds.

Once upon a time,Elephant and Hare werevery good friends.They shared a large herdof camels, cattle, and sheep. They grazed their animalsin the valley of Kingilo.Sometimes they tookthe animals to the hills,where there was plentyof grass and water. As the animals grazed,Hare and Elephant playedgames.They enjoyed playingfootball very much. Every time they played,Elephant would scoremore goals than Hare.This upset Hare very much. One day Hare asked Elephant,"What makes you so good?"Elephant quickly answered,"My big legs." The next day,Hare suggested thatthey run a race.Elephant agreed andthey started their race. Hare won all the races.Elephant was upsetbecause he had neverbeen defeated.So he asked Hare,"What makes you agood runner?"Hare answered,"My thin legs." Without a second thought,Elephant asked whathe could do to makehis legs thin.Hare said, "It is simple,I will show you with fire." Hare said, "Put your legsin the fire."Elephant stepped intothe fire. He shouted,"I am burning! I amburning!" Hare was happy.He encouraged Elephantto hold on, because burninghis legs was the only waythey could become thin. Elephant's legs hurt very badly,so he crawled out of the fire.He could not stand with hisburned legs, so he lay down. Elephant sat for manydays before he couldstand on his legs. Eventually, he was ableto limp home to his family. Hare and Elephant areno longer friends.

This is Chinnu. He is 5 years old. Chinnu loves to eat chocolates. Chocolates for breakfast. Chocolates for lunch. Chocolates for dinner. Yum! Amma would try to coax him to eat other food. But he only wanted chocolates. Amma even hid them on the top of the cupboard. But Chinnu found them. He even gave some to the dog. When Amma gave him rice & vegetables to eat, he screamed for chocolate. This made Amma very angry with Chinnu. "How can anyone grow without eating vegetables?", she said. Vegetables are your friends. Friends? How can vegetables be my friends? he thought. That night Chinnu dreamt about all the vegetables. Tomato, Carrot, Potato, Cabbage, Radish, Capsicum, Beans & Ladies Finger. Chinnu dreamt that all his friends had turned into vegetables and followed him to school. Vaibhav was a potato. Joshua was a carrot . Jeshur was a TOMATO!!! TRRRRRRING!! Rang the alarm clock. It was time for school. Chinnu was very scared of the dream. He asked God not to turn his friends into vegetables. He promised to start eating vegetables again. All the way to school, Chinnu was very scared. Did his friends really turn into carrots & beans? Maybe a potato or a tomato. Oh Dear! But Vaibhav was the same. Joshua was the same and thankfully, Jeshur looked like himself too. Phew! Chinnu was very happy. That night when Appa called Chinnu for dinner, Chinnu suddenly said, "Amma, give me vegetables. I now LOVE vegetables" Amma was very happy to hear this. Oh! Come, I will make you lots of yummy food. Carrot Sabji, Potato fries, Beans Sambar. From that day, Chinnu loved all vegetables.

Long ago, there was no night inOpio's village.People slept when they were tiredand worked when they were awake. One day Opio went out hunting withhis dogs. After a short time, hisdogs started to chase an antelope.Opio followed them. He ran formany hours.Every time he became tired, herested. Then he would run again.But he could not find his dogs. After many days, he came to avillage. He went to one of thehouses and said to the owner, "Ihave chased an antelope for a longtime and I am very tired. I want torest."The man said, "Sit down and rest.Would you like some beer?"Opio was very thirsty so he dranksome. Then he went to sleep. When he woke up, he couldn't see.He opened and closed his eyesmany times."You have given me something verybad to drink," he said to the man. "Ican't see properly anymore!""There is nothing wrong with you,"the man replied. "It's night now.Haven't you ever seen night? Whenthe day leaves, the night comes." Opio asked many questions aboutthe night. He began to like it verymuch.He and his new friend talked untilmorning.He stayed for another day so thathe could see the night come again. The next morning he asked hisfriend,"How can I take the night to myown village? I want my people tosee the night.""When it starts to get dark thisevening, walk to your village. If youlook straight in front, the night willfollow you. But you must not lookback. If you look back, the night willgo away." Opio did as he was told. Thatevening, he began to walk towardshis village.He felt the dark night behind him ashe walked.He wanted to look back.But he did not. When he came to his village, thevillagers were afraid."What disease have you brought tous, Opio?" they asked. "What is thisdark thing following you?"Opio said, "My friends, this darkthing is called night. Now you areafraid and I was afraid, too." "But you will learn to like the night.When the light comes we can workand when night comes, we canrest." And that is how night came to Opio's village.

There were two girls called Sara and Zara they were twins. They both longed for a merry -go -round because they didn't have one at home. Merry-go-rounds were lots of fun and enjoyable. The next day when they were going to school Zara saw something. She went closer to it. She realised that it was a poster she called Sara and they looked at it. It said there would be a circus with a playground. The girls thought there was a merry go round so they decided to go to the circus. After a few days they went to the circus. They hunted in the playground but there was no merry-go-round. Zara decided to give up and so did Sara. They were very sad. The twins were very sad. Their older sister tried to cheer them up. She dressed up in funny clothes, she made ugly faces and she made hilarious jokes. Nothing worked so she gave up. The twins began to get bored so they went to the local park. All of a sudden they froze. They saw something they really wanted............. A merry-go-round!!!! However happy they were they couldn't control their excitement. They had a lot of fun. And in their point of view It Was The BEST DAY EVER!!!!:)

A long time ago, three girls wentout to collect wood. It was a hot day so they went downto the river to swim.They played and splashed andswam in the water. Suddenly they realised that it waslate.They hurried back to the village. When they were nearly home,Nozibele put her hand to her neck.She had forgotten her necklace!"Please come back with me!" shebegged her friends.But her friends said it was too late. So Anna went back to the riveralone.She found her necklace and hurriedhome.But she got lost in the dark. In the distance she saw lightcoming from a hut.She hurried towards it and knockedat the door. To her surprise, a dog opened thedoor and said, "What do you want?""I'm lost and I need a place tosleep," said Anna."Come in, or I'll bite you!" said thedog.So Anna went in. Then the dog said, "Cook for me!""But I've never cooked for a dogbefore," she answered."Cook, or I'll bite you!" said the dog.So Anna cooked some food for thedog. Then the dog said, "Make the bedfor me!"Anna answered, "I've never made abed for a dog.""Make the bed, or I'll bite you!" thedog said.So Anna made the bed. Every day she had to cook andsweep and wash for the dog.Then one day the dog said, "Anna,today I have to visit some friends.Sweep the house, cook the food andwash my things before I comeback." As soon as the dog had gone, Annatook three hairs from her head.She put one hair under the bed, onebehind the door, and one in thefenced area in the village.Then she ran home as fast as shecould. When the dog came back, he lookedfor Anna."Anna, where are you?" he shouted."I'm here, under the bed," said thefirst hair."I'm here, behind the door," said thesecond hair."I'm here, in the fenced area," saidthe third hair. Then the dog knew that Anna hadtricked him.So he ran and ran all the way to thevillage.But Anna's brothers were waitingthere with big sticks.The dog turned and ran away andhas never been seen since.

Aloke was a cheerful boy. He had a smile always that would make anyone around him happy. Even in the saddest moments he would cheer up thinking the bad phase would be over soon.One night post dinner, after saying a goodbye to the smiling moon, in his sleep he had a dream that there was a dinosaur who was very cheerful and enjoyed being in the bright sun as much as he did in the rain. Aloke too felt he was close to nature and happy as the dino. When Aloke woke up in the morning he couldn't remember the rest of the dream but it was cloudy dark weather outside. His mom who was making breakfast asked Aloke to get ready and reach school before it rains. He asked her, " Ma can I get wet in the rains after school?" His mom replied hesitatingly " Er.. yes but not for too long."Once school was over he rushed back home. After a quick snack and change of dress, he was waiting excitedly for the clouds to shower rains. It hadn't rained since morning as though the sky was waiting for Aloke. Suddenly it started drizzling. He could hear his mom saying in a loud voice, " Aloke don't be out there in the rains for too long." But as soon as he closed his eyes he could see once again the happy dinosaur's face." Aloke just enjoyed the moment. For others who were seeing Aloke getting drenched in the rain, it was a sight worth capturing in a painting or a photograph.Aloke was just happy and there was a little frog too imitating what Aloke was doing. Only those who wanted to be happy could see Aloke's happiness too.Interestingly the little frog like Aloke was enjoying the nature, the smell of mother earth and the rains with both hands towards the sky.

Hello everybody my name is Tammy the turtle, in this story I go through many trials to find my mother. It all began on one sunny afternoon, I was resting on marina beach . Mama said she would be away only for a few minutes but 5 hours have passed by since she left, just at that moment i felt a chill run run down my spine as i saw my sister being carried away by a large bird. After an hour or so I decided to search for mama. I had to go deep in the sea to look for mama. I crawled to the shallow part and began my journey. I was afraid at first but then slowly began to think that it was really fun. On the way i met an angelfish. hello, what is your name? have you seen my mother?hello my name is misty and I'm sorry but I haven't seen your mother , but I'm sure you will find her.If you don't mind , could you please accompany me to my school of fish. My name is marina and I would love to accompany you. THANK YOU!!!!!!!!! marina. That's no problem , now come along. We soon reached the school of fish and I dropped of misty. I stopped to rest for some time and soon continued my journey. on the way I fell back on a light coral which pushed me towards a sharp one , in the process i wounded my leg and I started to bleed. then a mermaid papered out of nowhere , without me saying a word she took out one of her pearly fins and covered my wound with, and without me noticing soon disappeared. The magic fin had stopped the bleeding and had healed the wound . I decided to take a cat nap . after about 10 minutes I thought I heard my mothers voice, at first I thought I was dreaming but when i opened my eyes i was surprised to see my mother right in front of me. She then said , " My dear daughter you have gone through so many trials to find me , now i know how much you love me"

One day, Hare was out looking for food. He met Elephant, who had a pot of honey. Hare asked Elephant, "Please be kind and carry me. I am weak." Elephant agreed to carry Hare. Hare got onto Elephant's back and held on tightly. He started eating Elephant's honey straight away! Honey began dripping on Elephant's back. When Elephant asked what it was, Hare said that it was from his wound. They reached a river and found a large buffalo drinking water. Hare wanted to know who was stronger, Buffalo or Elephant. They began arguing. Elephant said she was stronger and Buffalo said she was stronger. Hare said he had an idea how to find out who was stronger. He asked them to wait for him there. Hare came back with a long rope. He tied the one end around Elephant's waist and led her away from the river. Hare tied the other end of the rope around Buffalo's waist and left her near the river. Hare ran and hid himself in a tree. He shouted, "Ready! One, two, three! Pull!" Buffalo and Elephant pulled. Elephant pulled Buffalo. Buffalo pulled Elephant. Neither could win. From where he was hiding, Hare continued to eat Elephant's honey. After he had finished the honey, he cut the rope closer to Buffalo. Elephant fell over hard and hit a tree. Hare went to Buffalo and praised her, saying that she was stronger.

Tina was a naughty but adventurous girl . She liked to play tricks. Every afternoon, she finds a way to sneak out of her house and go to the forest to explore. She ends up going to the hills instead. One such day, Tina's grandfather was not there to stop her from going to the forest, so she went in. Suddenly, she spots an animal who is half elephant and half bird. Meanwhile, in the village, Tina's mother told her grandfather that she could not find Tina. So her grandfather set out in search of Tina. In the forest, Tina was being chased by the crazy animal. She ran out of the forest, hurt badly. She ended up getting scoldings from her father. Her father told her not to go to the forest. Tina really wanted to go to the forest. So when the village prayers were going on, she would sneak into the forest to go and play with her new friend. Tina's grandfather knew everything, so he held a meeting to stop Tina from the crazy animal. So when she was sleeping, the villagers went to the forest to kill the animal. In the village, Tina cold hear the sound of the animal crying. So she went to the forest to save her friend. She saw her friend in trouble and she asked the villagers to stop hitting the animal. The villagers told her that it had caused harm to her. But Tina replied that the animal was her friend. The villagers believed Tina and so hey went back to the village happily. As for the animal, it went to the little house Tina had built for it. Tina was allowed to see the crazy animal from that day.

That morning, Kaushik felt like a real detective.After all, he had just got a shiny new torch and a magnifying glass from the local store. His grandpa had said to him, "Kaushik, you look like a true detective today. I wonder what you are going to find!"Kaushik was very excited as he walked briskly towards the forest near their farm. He looked at the wet grass and said to himself, "Hmm... I think it has just rained in this place." The torch and the magnifying glass were great. He had already found his first clue. Not bad for a first time detective!Just then, he noticed a few red objects on the grass. What could these be? They looked like mushrooms. But, should a detective accept that? He wanted to be absolutely certain. So he tiptoed around these objects, took out his magnifying glass and looked closely.Wonders of wonders! He saw a tiny girl sitting there, under an umbrella. Kaushik looked at her through his magnifying glass. He asked, in a brave voice, "Who are you? What are you doing here?"The tiny girl got frightened by his loud voice and eyes, which looked enormous behind the magnifying glass. She let go of her umbrella and leaned back in fear. Through the magnifying glass, Kaushik could see her expressions clearly. She looked worried.So he told her, kindly, "Don't worry, I won't hurt you. I want to be your friend." She stared at him for few minutes and asked softly, "Is it still raining?""No, the rain stopped long ago. There is no need for an umbrella now. You can also ask your friends to close their umbrellas," said Kaushik. The girl climbed on top of Kaushik's hat and gave him a warm smile."My name is Lalitha. I live in this forest along with my family. We don't know how to build a house. So when it rains, we use our umbrellas to protect ourselves from the shower." "I can teach you and your family how to build a house. My father says that I could be a great architect someday," said Kaushik.With that, Kaushik's detective dream came to an end, and the next dream began.

Once there was a boy named Richard and he always had good luck but this day he was not going to have good luck and he knew it. He had woken up very early so he was very tired and dizzy so to wake him up he had a shower but the water was cold so he came out of the shower straight away He got dressed and had some breakfast but the breakfast was old and yuck so he decided to go outside and play with his friend Josh. But when he got outside he realised it was raining so he went back inside. Richard wanted to play with his toys but his sister Amy was taking all the toys and not sharing them so he told his mum that Amy was not sharing, but all she said was ''HUH'' He decided he would eat a snack so he went to the cupboard to grab some cookies but when he opened the door of the cupboard he saw that the ants had eaten all the cookies so now he had nothing to eat. Then at that moment he smelled something good and he saw his mum had made a very yummy cake. They really enjoyed it!

One rainy day near a mushroom (fungi) . A seven year old boy who was explorer came to explore the area of this fungi of mushrooms.The boy was looking with his new magnifying glass when he spotted the fungi of mushrooms. He then spotted a brown patch moving. He went more close and saw a very small girl and did not panic like others do.He remained calm and patient. He then started talking to the girl. See the conversation:Boy:My name is Anurd. What is your name?Girl:My name is Thriya. I am fine. How are you? Boy:Even I am fine. How come you are so small and I am so big?Girl:I am under a magic spell. That's why I appear so small to you.Boy:Who put you under the spell?Maybe I can help you.Girl:Mrs. Grunty put me under the spell.Boy:Mrs. Grunty is my mother. We both go to my house.Boy:Mom why did you make Thriya so small?Mom:I made her so small because she was going to spoil my lab by:-1. Hitting the acid test tube.2. The acid test tube was going to fall on our cat Mew.3. It would shout so loud because of getting burnt.4. Then it would hit me.5. I would hit every test tube in our lab and it would be a disaster.That's why.Boy: Thriya apologise from mom.Girl: Sorry, aunty.Mom: Ok.Boy: Make Thriya her normal size.Mom: OK abrararararachoooooTHE END

One day a very clever baby wasborn in Gungululu in theEastern Cape.Her name was Sindiwe Magona.She was the oldest of eightchildren. At night, her grandmother toldmagical stories about ogres andgiants, animals of the forests,great beasts, and littlecreatures of the veld.It was Sindiwe's favourite time. Sindiwe loved school and shedreamed about being a teacher. When Sindiwe became ateenager, her family organiseda feast to celebrate.She was given special things towear and a wise old man sang apraise song to her.(Blessings, long life! May yourancestors guard you!) Sindiwe trained to be a teacher.She was very excited to teachat her first school.But there weren't enoughschools for black children andthey had no desks or books towrite in.This made Sindiwe feel scared.How could she be a goodteacher when the children hadnowhere to sit? She left the school to work as acleaner.She worked in four differenthouses. Sometimes the peoplethere treated her badly andSindiwe became very unhappy. All this time Sindiwe studied.Her hard work paid off!She won a scholarship to studyat a university in New York.She and her three smallchildren packed their bags andflew across the sea to theUnited States of America. In New York, Sindiwe studied tobecome a social worker. Shewanted to help families maketheir lives better. When she finished studying, theUnited Nations gave Sindiwe ajob.Most of the countries in theworld meet at the UnitedNations to talk about theirproblems. Sindiwe told the world aboutSouth Africa, and how hard itwas for black people livingthere.The people at the UnitedNations loved to listen toSindiwe's stories. They wantedto learn more and more aboutSouth Africans.Perhaps, together, they couldhelp to change things in SouthAfrica. She worked at the UnitedNations for twenty years whileher children grew into adults.But Sindiwe missed the countrywhere she was born.She wanted to tell her stories tothe people at home.So she packed her luggage, goton a plane and flew back overthe sea to Cape Town. Sindiwe's love for books andstories have helped her writepiles and piles of books.And children and grown-upslove to read her stories.Many people call her Nomabalibecause she's always writing,telling and reading stories.

Toku was a jungle boy. He had animal friends. Etal the elephant was his close and best friend. Tofu the turtle was his pet and cook. Blizz the bee was his *sidekick. *sidekick-a person who accompanies you. One such day, Toku got an invitation to Nela's the horse's birthday party. On the way, they met Bowwow the dog. He said he was going to the party too. So they went together. On the way. they saw Clawey the dino carrying a basket. He told them he was taking eggs to make the cake. So Clawey went along with them The next person they saw was Nomella the leopard. She said she was taking the prises for the games in the party. So she joined the group. Soon they reached the party. Nela was waiting for them. Etal, Blizz, Quackella the duck, Wishy the whale, Foorusha the frog, Tofu and Tulula the bird were there. There was a funny choir, games, a resturant, a movie and much more. It was the best party the animals and Toku had witnessed.

The people in a village of smallhuts were becoming unhappy.Wild animals began to comeand frighten them. These animals ate all theircrops and even carried childrenaway.It was not a good place to liveany longer, but where could thepeople go? One family found the answer.It was not hard to find food upin the hills. Bushes grew in the cracksbetween rocks.Trees grew on the slopes of thehills.The parents trapped rockrabbits and the children caughtbirds. Other families noticed how wellthe hill family lived."It is a good life up in the hills,"said the husband. "You shouldcome there too." Soon the other families left theflat land and went up to thehills.Each family found a cave to livein, and felt warm and secure. Soon the children became veryquick at climbing rocks, andfinding fruit in the trees.They could swing in thebranches almost as well as anymonkey. Slowly, things began to change.The children talked less, andgrunted more. Then the adultsnoticed that their noses weregetting bigger and that theywere growing more hair. Every time they looked at oneanother they saw that theirteeth were longer.They started to walk on fourlegs. They became a new creaturethat no-one had seen before inthat place. This was thecreature which people now callthe baboon. For a time, the baboons livedhappily. They stopped chasingthe rock rabbits and ate grubsfrom the ground. They forgot how to talk. They took off their clothes becausetheir legs and arms were covered with dark hair. They still remembered that theyhad been people. They lookedat each other's big noses andlaughed at each other. But they did not like thelaughing. They jumped up anddown in anger.Soon the baboons could not betogether because of thelaughing and the anger. Eachfamily went off and lived byitself. That is why baboons live in small groups today and do not live as a baboonnation.

One day at the river, Dog came across some eggs in the sand. He asked himself, "Which animal left these eggs here?" He counted ten eggs and thought they might belong to Duck. He put them in his bag. He took the eggs home and put them in a warm place. When Dog returned to the river, he met Crocodile. She asked, "Have you seen my eggs?""I don't know anything about your eggs," he replied. Crocodile started visiting all the animals asking about her eggs. Meanwhile, the eggs hatched one by one. Dog did his best to look after the baby crocodiles, but there was never enough food. The young crocodiles were always hungry. One day Crocodile went to Dog's house looking for her eggs. As she stood outside, she heard the rumbling of little crocodile bellies! Crocodile stormed inside and hit Dog with her tail. Dog yelped and jumped through the window. Crocodile chased Dog all the way to the river. Dog cried, "I'm sorry, I didn't know they were your eggs!" Crocodile believed him and forgave him. She took her offspring for their first swimming lesson.

Once upon a time on a little farm near a little village there lived a little chicken called Daisy. "When I grow up, I want to fly high, high into the sky," Daisy said. But all the other chickens laughed at her. "You are so weird," they said."We won't play with you anymore." "Daisy, we can all flap our wings but it's very difficult for chickens to fly," Mama told her. Daisy wouldn't give up.Every day she practised by herself, flapping her wings.Flap, flap, flap, she would flap her wings but she couldn't lift off the ground. While she practised, she imagined herself flying high into the sky and looking at the chickens below.She imagined herself flying past the sparrows and past the swallows."Wow!" the birds would say. "A chicken that can fly!" So... Flap, flap, flap, every day Daisy would flap her wings. She would lift off the ground but fall down again. "I'm never going to fly!" Daisy cried to Mama. "The others are right." "Daisy, you are different from the other chickens. They don't want to fly but you do! You can do it," Mama said. The following day Daisy climbed to the top of the chicken coop and flap, flap, flap, she flapped her wings.She flew into the air and flapped her wings...and flapped her wings...and flapped her wings...and... BAM! The other chickens laughed out loud."Ha ha ha! We told you! Chickens can't fly!" But the next day Daisy climbed even higher, right up to the top of the rondavel.Flap, flap, flap, Daisy flapped her wings. She flew into the air and flapped her wings... and flapped her wings ... and flapped her wings and... She kept flying!The wind beneath her wings grew stronger and she flew higher and higher!The sparrows and the swallows said, "Amazing! A flying chicken!" And the other chickens wanted to be just like her. They said, "Oh Daisy, you're amazing!"

In Rajasthan, there once lived a traditional folklore Singer. He traveled from village to village telling beautiful stories woven into songs. Yet his region never got any rain. As he was traveling, he came across a weird skeleton on the desert. It looked like an unusual creature. An idea sparked and he decided to try out his life-giving folklore song to bring it to life. As the Singer finished his folk song, a huge Dinosaur came to life. The Dinosaur gently smiled and licked his hand. Soon they became good friends. The Dinosaur was overjoyed to hear a story woven into a song. He also wished to learn singing. He asked the Singer to teach him a folklore song. The Singer taught the Dinosaur the oldest folk-song about rain. Once the Dinosaur learned it well, then both began singing it together. The unusual combination of the Singer and the Dinosaur's song moved the sky so much that rain bearing clouds gathered with lightening. Down came the rain drenching the desert with the sky's reward for the duet. The earth and sky rejoiced with renewed happiness along with the villagers. The region enjoyed the first welcome shower after a long time. Soon it became popular that when the Singer and the Dinosaur sang an unusual duet the sky rewarded them with rain. From then on the Singer and his Dinosaur friend were invited to perform in various villages needing rain.

Once upon a time there lived anelderly woman who alwayswanted a child. The woman took the best clay soil she could find andstarted to make a girl. The girl who was made of mudthen turned into a real humangirl. The elderly woman was veryhappy.She named the girl Akatope.She loved Akatope very much. Akatope was warned by herelderly mother not to come outof the hut but she would notlisten.Whenever her mother was notaware, Akatope would sneakout to play with the otherchildren. One day as Akatope was outplaying with the other children,it began to rain hard. The other children ran to theirhuts but as Akatope ran to hers,her legs started to dissolve.She hunched over and sat downbetween bushes. The other children told theirparents what had happened toAkatope.They were very sad andshocked. When the elderly woman heardwhat had happened to her onlychild, she cried for many days.The villagers who visited her,decided to bring another littlegirl who had been orphaned totake the place of Akatope. But that was not necessary.A big surprise awaited the elderly woman! Few days after the orphan girlhad been welcomed to theelderly woman's home, therewas a gentle knock on the door. "Who could that be," the elderlywoman wondered.When she opened the door, shecould not contain her joy. Akatope had come home.But she was tired and sick. Akatope's elderly mother soldeverything she owned.She used the money to treatAkatope.Akatope grew up to be the mostbeautiful girl in the village.

Once upon a time, there was aman who thought that theyouth were wiser than theirelders. He even bragged aboutit before his wife.He said to her, "I am wiser thanyour father."His wife disagreed with him, buthe would not listen to her. One day when the wife went tosee her parents, she told herfather about how his son-in-lawclaims to be wiser than himbecause he is younger.The old man sent his daughterback to ask her husband if hestill held the same view. Her husband sent her back. "Goand tell your father to preparefor me a drink brewed frommist.""Now I will prove to my fatherin-law that I am indeed verywise," he chuckled.No one can make a drink frommist. The father-in-law just laughed itoff as no alcohol could be madeout of mist. However, the oldman sent the daughter backwith a message accepting thechallenge of preparing a brewfrom mist. But on condition thatwhen it was ready, the one tocollect it should neither be aman nor a woman. The son-in-law found himselftrapped.From that time, he believed inthe old saying that "Shoulderswill never grow taller than thehead."

Once upon a time, there lived a mancalled Mairu in Bubaali Village.Heliked to eat meat so much. One day, the chairman of Bubaalivillage invited all the villagers to hiswedding that was to take place athis home. Then Mairu also heard that therewas another wedding in Nabuyanjavillage."Ugh! ugh! ugh!Two parties on thesame day!" Mairu imagined. "I must attend both parties," ha haha said. "I will first walk to Bubaalithen come back to Nabuyanja." Mairu woke up very early in themorning and walked to Bubaalivillage. He looked around and sawthat the party had not yet started."I will go back to Nabuyanja andreturn to Bubaali later," Mairusuggested to him self, yes! yes!hope i will not be late. Mairu walked gently back to Bubaalihoping to find the meat ,rice,sodasand matooke ready. He was nowvery hungry. When he arrived, menand women were still preparing thefood. "I left cooks at Bubaali preparing tocook," he thought. "The food mustbe ready now." Mairu decided towalk back to Nabuyanja under hotsunshine , i will not loose hope headded! Mairu arrived at the Bubaali party,people had already eaten andcleaned the utensils. Guests weregiving presents to the bride and thegroom. Mairu was verydisappointed. he looked displacedand every one became concerned.but his target was to eat enough . . He decided to walk back toNabuyanja village. Because he washungry and tired, he could not walkfast any more. When he arrived at Nabuyanjavillage, the food was over and itwas time for the bride and groomgiving a speech. Upon hearing that there was nofood, Mairu fell and fainted. He hadmissed meat from both parties. Allhe got was some posho and beanson a small plate yet his target wasto eat meat. gently ,he walked back homecursing never to serve two mastersat ago.

Once upon a time,there lived two rats.One rat lived in thebush. The other rat lived in ahouse. One day, the rat thatlived in the house saidto the rat that lived inthe bush, "You eatbadly, sleep badly, andit rains on you." "But us, we sleep inchief's houses. We eatmany different kinds offood. One day comeand visit me and see,"said the house rat."I will come this verynight," said the bushrat. "I'm ready like astraw for taking soda." Meanwhile the owner ofthe house was furious.He cursed, "These ratsthat eat my food, theywill see!" This time, heset a trap with sugar. The rats came in to eat thegoodies in the house. They camelaughing,"Chu...chu...chi...chi...che...che!" When they reached thetrap the house rat said,"Let me taste thissugar. You see thegoodies we eat here." But before the rat couldtake the sugar, the trapsnapped, PA! The trapcaught the rat's head,and his eyes bulged likeeggplants. The bush rat justlooked, amazed. Hesaid, "E...heee! Myfriend, which goodiesdid you eat that madeyour eyes bulge?" But the house rat could not reply. The bush rat left thehouse saying,"Haa! I will not managethese goodies youpraise." Your worst home isbetter than yourneighbour's best home.

Mother Sun decided to visit her sister, the moon.Sister Moon lives on the other side of the sky. "I will be back soon," said Sun to the clouds. When Sun left, the mountains put on their white scarves. Wind had an argument with the trees.The trees became angry.They threw their leaves all over the place. The sky started to grumble.She turned grey. The clouds were sad to see all this.They started crying.There were many tears. The whole world began to sink under water. Meanwhile, on the other side of the sky,Sun was ready to leave her sister.She kissed the moon goodbye and went home. Sky was so happy to see Sun that she turned bright blue.The mountains put on their pretty green dresses. The wind went to sleep.The trees stretched their branches and smiled. The clouds were very happy to see mother Sun again.They went away to play. Lots of little plants popped out of the earth to say, "Hello."The whole world sparkled. Mother Sun shone her light everywhere."I told you I would be back," she beamed.

"No Nomvula, don't play withwater. It is so scarce!""But it's hot, Mama! I feel likegetting into this water. I want tobe cool." "No, Nomvula. Don't play withwater. Water is scarce.""But it's hot, Mama, I'm thirsty.I'd like to drink cold water." It is raining. There is going to bea lot of water. Now I can't play –I wish it could be hot. Look at the vegetables. Theyare growing and becominggreen.Look! The bowls and bucketsare overflowing with water. It has stopped raining. Now wecan play!Look how beautiful everythingis after the rain. The sky is clearand blue. Trees and grass aregreen, and the plants areflowering. Oh no! There the rain is again!When are we going to play? Oh no, me! I'm going to play,even if it's raining! Oh it's solovely to play in the rain.Chapha chapha chapha!Imanz'ilokhwe yam!Imanz'ilokhwe yam!Chapha chapha chapha!Zimanz'iinwele zam!Zimanz'iinwele zam! Nomvula, you don't want tolisten, my child. Come closer,let me dry and comb your hair.Chapha chapha chapha!Zimanz'iinwele zakho!Zimanz'iinwele zakho!

This is the story of Keeper and his nursery for orphaned animals. Last month was a busy month at the nursery. The first one to arrive at the nursery was one-year old Nomsa. She was thin and sad. But soon, Nomsa got stronger. She began to play with the other animals. On another day that month, a helicopter landed at the nursery. In the helicopter was a small elephant under a big blanket. Her name was Ndiwa. Ndiwa was five days old. Keeper fed Ndiwa with a bottle. One night, everybody was woken up by the arrival of Ambia, a giraffe. Ambia was five months' old. She was weak after her long journey. Because of her long neck, Keeper held the bottle high to feed Ambia. The last orphans to arrive that month were three hungry cubs. Their names were Kopi, Kepi and Keji. Keeper and his helpers love all of the animals, even the naughty ones. The people at the nursery work hard. They hope that one day the orphans can look after themselves. Then these animals can return to the wild.

Once upon a time, there was an old woman who lived with her three grandchildren. Every morning they all went to work in the field. But one day, one of the girls said, "Grandmother, I don't feel well today." So the old woman sent the child home. When the girl got home, she saw that there was meat in the pot. She ate all the meat and then went to sleep. The old woman and two children were tired and hungry when they returned from the field.Grandmother prepared ugali for supper, to eat with the meat she had cooked early in the morning. She opened the pots to serve her grandchildren. When she opened the pot with the meat, it was empty! "Who ate the meat?" asked Grandmother, frowning. But all three grandchildren shook their heads."Not me," each one said. So their grandmother tied a rope across the river. She told each of them to walk on the rope as they sang a song."The one that ate the meat will fall into the river, and learn to tell the truth," Grandmother said to the children. The first granddaughter walked quickly across the river, singing the song.The song went like this:_If am the one who ate the meat__May the rope break and drop me in the lake__Let me fall deep into the lake__May the rope break and drop me in the lake_ The other two grandchildren began to argue with each other. The girl said to the boy, "You go next." The boy replied, "No, you go next!" The granddaughter who ate the meat was scared and shivering. As she stepped forward to walk on the rope, she slipped and fell into the river. "Help! Help!" shouted the girl.Grandmother said to the other two, "She is guilty, but we must help her." Together they pulled the frightened girl out of the river.Since that day, the old woman's grandchildren have always told the truth.

There was a rich man who looked for a wife for a long time.When he married, he had a big ceremony that was blessed by the elders. After years of marriage, the man and woman began to worry because they did not have a child.The woman prayed for a child again and again. But she still did not become pregnant. One day, tired of waiting, she said, "Devil, if you give me a child, I will make a beautiful scarf for you."The following month, she became pregnant. She was happy and made the scarf which she had promised. The woman gave birth to a baby boy. Everybody rejoiced with her.She wanted to give the scarf to the devil but realised that she did not know how to find him. So she visited an elder and asked him for advice. The elder said, "To find the devil, go near the church. You will find two men standing before a wise man. These two have been fighting. The one who refuses to reconcile and leaves in anger is the devil! Follow him and give him this scarf." The woman went near the church. She saw two men standing before a wise man.The wise man said, "Enough! It's time to forgive each other from the heart."One of the men bent forward to ask for forgiveness. The other one refused and walked away. The woman called after him, "Wait! I have something for you." She offered him the scarf.The angry man asked, "What is this?"The woman answered, "It is your present." He replied, "I do not understand why you are giving me this present." The woman told him the story. She said, "You are the man who refused to apologise. That means you are the devil."She stretched out her hand to give him the scarf. This man ran back to the church. He knelt down in front of the other man and said to him, "I forgive you. Forgive me too."The other man also knelt. They hugged each other. The woman continues to search for the devil.Make sure the scarf does not belong to you!

Once up on a time, a man had twogoats, he used to keep them in agoats house and shut the doorevery evening.In the morning he opened themand took them to graze.He used to tether them wherethere was no enough grass. As such they never got satisfied.One night, the goats discussed howto open the and get out to go andfind what to eat.One goat found a way of openingthe door. They went out and atepotato vines belonging to thathome. After eating they went backto the house and shut the door. In the morning the man, discoveredthat his vines had been eaten bysome animals, he could notsuspect his neighbors goats.In the night, the goats opened andate the vines. The following morning the manfound the vines eaten, hequarreled and quarreled, heplanned to be checking on hisvines at night.In the middle of the night, hecame out with a spear, he tip toedtowards the goats, aimed andthrew the spear. One goat was speared and they allran away, the man entered thehouse.In the morning he went to checkfor what he had speared, only tofind out that he had speared hisown goat.He was very sorry about theincident.

Granny sits out in the verandah for long. She wants her bird friend to sing a song. Her old fist is closed with gaps. I can see that she holds some grains in a wrap."Who is your bird friend?" I ask."Oh! It is the sparrow but finding one is such a task."With this Granny goes into the past when the sparrows would come in so fast.She mutters to herself, "Yes! They would eat from my little palm and chirped till I played and slept in the calm. Those times when the birds and humans enjoyed a bond. Those little brown birds would often flutter in our pond. They would also make their homes in our roshandans, sing in the fields and fly across the maidan."Chirp! Chirp! came the sound of Granny's long lost friend. Granny sprang up as her joy knew no end."Oh! Come! come to see what I have in my hand. You were in my wish list that I scribbled on the sand."God is so kind and a great messenger too. He sent the little bird to make my Granny's wish come true.

Shruti is a smart girl. She wins all the competitions she takes part in. Everybody wonders how she does it. They want to know her secret! Miss Shalini is Shruti's favorite teacher. Shruti invites Miss Shalini to stay at her place for a few days.Miss agrees because she also wants to know Shruti's secret. Miss Shalini brings with her a robot camera which follows Shruti everywhere. There is a new competition coming up. A dance competition! On the day of the competition, everybody wakes up to find Shruti missing. "Where is she", they ask? They go and look for the robot camera. The camera shows Shruti practising a lot for the competition.On that day also, she has woken up early to practice. “Ah so that's where she has been!”, says, Miss Shalini.Miss Shalini is happy with her hard work. Shruti wins the dance competition! Miss Shalini hugs Shruti and says “well done!” Miss Shalini announces to everyone- "Practice makes a person perfect. That's Shruti's secret to winning".

One day, Mr. Slothcame to visit. He said:I'm sleepy! I need agood branch for a bed! I'm quite good atclimbing.I know how to swing.But sleeping's myfavourite, favouritething. This branch lookslovely!I think I'll sleep here.And you? Don't youthink that's a splendididea? Oh no, Mr. Sloth! Agiraffe's eating there!He might think you'relunch and start nibblingyour hair! This branch lookslovely!I think I'll sleep here.And you? Don't youthink that's a splendididea? Oh no, Mr. Sloth!There'sa beehive right there!You'll never get sleepwith those beeseverywhere! This branch lookslovely!I think I'll sleep here.And you? Don't youthink that's a splendididea? Oh no, Mr. Sloth, that'sa snake over there!Not a branch! Poor oldsnake. You gave himquite a scare. This branch lookslovely!I think I'll sleep here.And you? Don't youthink that's a splendididea? Oh no, Mr. Sloth!There'sa bird squawking there!You'll never get sleepwith that noise in theair! Try climb one morebranch, Mr. Sloth! theyall said.And that branch wasjust the right one for hisbed. The bird and the snake,the giraffe and eachbeewere happy to have Mr.Sloth in their tree.

Andiswa watched the boys play soccer. She wished that she could join them. She asked the coach if she can practise with them. The coach put his hands on his hips. "At this school, only boys are allowed to play soccer," he said. The boys told her to go play netball. They said that netball is for girls and soccer is for boys. Andiswa was upset. The next day, the school had a big soccer match. The coach was worried because his best player was sick and could not play. Andiswa ran to the coach and begged him to let her to play. The coach was not sure what to do. Then he decided that Andiswa could join the team. The game was tough. Nobody had scored a goal by half time. During the second half of the match one of the boys passed the ball to Andiswa. She moved very fast towards the goal post. She kicked the ball hard and scored a goal. The crowd went wild with joy. Since that day, girls were also allowed to play soccer at the school.

Long time ago, in a Turkana village, people loved to dance the edonga dance. Every evening they gathered together and danced edonga. The whole region came to know of this village and its dancers. People from nearby villages also came to this village to dance. A stranger heard of the famous village. He sent his messenger to go there before him. When the messenger arrived, the villagers were afraid. They wondered who the stranger was, and why he had sent his messenger. The villagers prepared food and animals to be slaughtered. The villagers gathered and waited. They sat the whole day until evening. But the stranger did not arrive. That night, the villagers danced as usual until midnight. That night there were many dancers. Everybody in the village was excited. While they were dancing, the stranger arrived. Although he was a stranger, he looked just like the other villagers. They did not notice him at first. When it was the stranger's turn to dance, he joined the men. But his dancing was strange and different from the others. People were amused and began to laugh at the stranger. Some dancers fell down laughing. Some sat down, and others knelt laughing. The stranger did not like people laughing at him. He decided to curse them.He stopped dancing and everyone became a stone in the position they were in. Some were lying down, others standing, others sitting and kneeling. Then the stranger left the village.Since then, those stones remained there. At night they can be heard singing and dancing edonga.That is how we have the site of Namoratunga.

Avanti was the zookeeper of Pitara zoo.There were many, many animals in Pitara, but Avanti's best friend was Ballu, the bear. Ballu was big, brown and strong.On his fourth birthday, Avanti organised a little party for Ballu. “Ballu, can you blow out all the candles at once?” Avanti asked.“Of course!” said Ballu. He filled his chest with air. He huffed and puffed and puffed and huffed and went “WHOOSH!” The blast of air blew the candles out. Then rising up, it crashed into the clouds in the sky. And all of a sudden, there was was a roar of thunder and it started to rain. “Hey, it's raining fish,” Avanti shouted.Ballu looked around with wonder. Then he picked up a huge basket and ran around collecting fish as they fell from the sky.Every time the basket filled, he dropped the fish in a little pond and ran back for more. Then, as he was rushing for the tenth time to the pond, he turned back. The water level had risen and he could see that Avanti was scared. Ballu came back quickly, picked Avanti up and placed her on his shoulders.Avanti put her arms around Ballu's neck and thanked him.Soon, the clouds disappeared and the sun came out. It was bright and cheerful once again. “I will never again ask you to blow the candles out,” said Avanti.“Why?”asked Ballu.“Who knows? Next time it might start raining frogs,” Avanti said and the two friends started laughing.

Rachel was a fun loving 12 year old girl. She had a stuffed toy that was huge and she just loved him.The stuffed toy was with her since she was three years old. He had become old, little faded yet Rachel adored him.One night just before her stuffed toy's birthday, she had a dream. In the dream, Rachel saw herself and her stuffed toy going on an adventurous picnic in a jungle, but it suddenly started raining rather heavily.The toy had become alive and Rachel was amazed to see he was closing his ears on hearing the thunder. Soon Rachel found she was in a huge puddle of water and she was getting separated from her friend, her stuffed toy whom she had named Big Ben.Rachel had plans for Big Ben in the jungle. But she was getting pulled by strong waters in a river. Thankfully she was able to get herself out from the waters. And Big Ben too worked his way out of the waters. Aha! When both Big Ben and Rachel were on the banks of the river, Rachel removed lots of goodies from her backpack. She had planned a surprise birthday party for Big Ben.Big Ben was delighted.He had never had a birthday party as a stuffed toy.Then Rachel told him that whether he is alive or just as a stuffed toy; she will always be fond of him equally. Big Ben blew the candles on the cake that was even then fresh and had a great day with Rachel.When Rachel woke up the next morning she had a huge smile on her face and she ran to her stuffed toy to give him a tight bear hug before getting ready for school.

A long time ago, there was aman who lived with his wifewhom he loved very much.One day he took a walk to theforest. Along the way, he met atall, slender, and very beautifulgirl.He fell in love with her at firstsight. The girl too readilyaccepted him.But she told him that she hadonly one breast. So she told him to go home, cutoff one of his wife's breasts andbring it to her. Then she wouldhave two breasts, and theycould marry.The man ran very fast backhome, picked a knife, pouncedon his dear wife, and the breastwas off instantly. He hurried back to the forest towhere he had left his newfounddarling.But she was nowhere to beseen. He called her name veryloudly, but there was completesilence.Then he heard a voice saying,"Why are you calling? Don't youknow that you are in the forestarea of Musambwa kwaLibeeletwela?" When the man heard that, heran home as fast as a bullet ...Only to find his wife had justdied.He was so grief strickenbecause of what he had donethat he too died.

There was an old widow who had two sons and two daughters-in-law. They mistreated her all day long which made her very sad. The widow kept her sadness within herself and soon she grew heavy with the burden of her grief. On seeing her getting fat, her sons and daughters-in-law complained and served her less food.One day, they left her alone in the house while they went out to enjoy themselves in the village fair. The sheer misery of being alone with her sadness forced her to wander the streets. She came across a decaying house that seemed to reflect her state of mind and she ventured into it.The cracked walls seemed to invite her and her sorrow. She began to narrate how her first son tormented her. The wall on hearing her sad story collapsed, unable to bear the weight of her sorrow.Even after sharing her sorrow she felt stifled with her inner emotions. Then she shared how her first son's wife abused and disappointed her. The second wall buckled under her narration.Half the burden of her sorrow was released and taking this cue of sharing her emotional burden made her share the ill-treatment that she met at the hands of her second son.The wall crumbled under the narration's power of expression. Soon the fourth wall also crumbled as she narrated about the cruelty she met at the hands of her daughter-in-law.Eventually, all the four walls laden with old widow's tear just crumbled down. The widow then returned home feeling much better and light-hearted.

For ages, Olokwango hill stoodsmiling at the middle of KwerePlains. From the two dimples on itsside came springs which convergeddownhill to form a river.River Temu meandered silentlyacross the Kwere plains. Its waterswere a gift to the sheep and goatsof the area as well as the deer thatdwelt in the plains. Things were all well until Matatabecame headman.He ordered a path to be clearedfrom the top of the hill to the foot sothat he could climb uphill easily androll gently down to the foot.Olokwango hill was angry with thedamage to his beard, but he waspatient. During the weekend, Matata'schildren and their friends wouldclimb uphill to play.They would run all over the place,breaking twigs and branches,lighting fires for their games, whichthey would later leave burning. Over time, Olokwango lost patience.The dimples became smaller andsmaller as his face turned into uglywrinkles.At last the springs were no more.The deer in the plains migratedbecause there was no more tallgreen grass to play in. The sheepand goats grew thinner and thinner.Everyone felt the sadness ofOlokwango hill. The people of Kwere realised that something neededto be done.They joined hands and overthrew Matata theheadman.In his place they appointed Baraka who immediatelyordered everyone to plant a flower to honourOlokwango. Baraka and his people held ceremoniesand brought gifts of pine, cedar, and cypress forOlokwango. No one walked on the hill anylonger, and the grass had a chanceto grow tall once again. Gradually,the smile on the face of Olokwangohill grew broader and the dimplesdeeper. Out of the dimples thesprings ran again. River Temu wasrevived. The plains became greenerthan ever before. The deer gallopedhappily once more across the grass. "Long live Baraka, long liveBaraka," the people of Kwere sang."Long live Olokwango," said Barakaand his people. "May our childrenand children's children foreverrespect you."

"Nandu , Chinku , come here . It's time for your bath ", mummy called.Nandu and Chinku came running to the bathroom with their toy elephant .Mummy turned on the tap . Whooosh!!! whoosh!!! gushed water from the tap!!! They jumped into their bath tubs. Splish splash , splish splash , they played in the water .Nandu poured water all over his head . "Ooh , Ooh " squealed Chinku, playing in his tub. Rub , Rub , Rub Mummy rubbed soap all over Chinku .Elephant blew soap bubbles and sent them flying all over the bathroom. Now Nandu and Chinku were clean clean clean.They ran out of the bath. “Stop stop ,“ cried mummy, “ you are wet .” Mummy wrapped big white towels around Nandu and Chinku .Wipe Wipe Wipe , she wiped and made them dry dry dry . Nandu put on his green pajamas .Mummy put on blue pajamas for Chinku .He laughed because it went tickle tickle tickle . Nandu and Chinku 's tummy went rumble rumble rumble."Oh, You are hungry " said mummy. "Let's have dinner ." She gave them food and veggies. After dinner, Nandu and Chinku ran to grandpa's room.Nandu gave a hug and kiss to grandma . "Good night grandma," he said.Chinku climbed onto grandpa' s lap and wiggled his big moustache."Time for bed," called mummy. "Good night mummy," said Nandu and held mummy's hand."Good night Nandu," said mummy.Chinku fell fast asleep on mummy's arm."Good night children," said the moon peeping in!!

Once upon a time there was a deer and her name was Lily and she had a friend bird named Coco. Coco was very clever and smart. Every day they went to a meadow to eat food but they never realized that there was a cave and in that cave lived a wolf named Ham and he loved eating meat and especially a deer. One day Lily and Coco went to the meadow to eat their breakfast when Ham got a nightmare and he woke up and went out and as soon as he walked out he saw Lily and he thought she was his breakfast but he knew that she won't come and allow ham to eat her so he made a plan. He went outside and asked Lily "Can I by your friend I don't have a friend or family". Lily agreed but Coco told her not to believe him but Lily didn't listen all she wanted was a new friend. The next day when they all went to the meadow for breakfast and Ham thought of making a trap so he told Lily "I will take you to a place where there is fresh grass". So he took her to a farmer's crop and then waited and waited and after they went the farmer came and looked at his crops and what he saw was that some one is eating her crops and so she thought of putting a trap to find who was eating her crops. The next day early morning she put a net and she waited in her hut, then the deer came alone and started to it but she didn't notice the net. After she finished she got to know that she was glued to the net so she called for help, after some time her friend Coco came and asked her "What is the matter?" "I am stuck " replyed Lily. Then Coco got an idea and told Lily to play dead so she did and when the farmer saw her dead the farmer felt Ashamed of herself and so she untied Lily and as soon as she took the net away Lily ran as fast as she could and the farmer threw a wooden bat so coco turn it to Ham and the bat hit Ham's head and he died.

The journey started at 8:00 am. On the way tothe bats party, tortoise told the rabbit thatonce they reach at the party, he will be called"All of you" and rabbit accepted it. By 10:00am they were already at the party,warmly welcomed by the bats and given seatsin one room. The bats brought tea for them and tortoiseasked who should take the tea? The batsreplied "it is for all of you". Tortoise thanked the bats and he started takingthe tea alone since he was called all of you atthe party. When Time for lunch came, food was served.The bats again said, "This food is for all ofyou". Immediately Tortoise began eating as therabbit waited for his food. Unfortunately the bats did not know thattortoise was called all of you and the Batsfound out later that the rabbit did not eat whenthey came for plates. This shocked the batsbecause the food was over. The rabbit then moved out running as tortoiseand the bats enjoyed the party. Ever since then, tortoise walks slowly becauseof the food that he ate at the party, bats swingin the air because they are afraid of rabbit'shunger and rabbit runs so fast because he hasto find food to eat somewhere else.

Windy was always ready for an adventure. She did'nt like making paper boats or go berry picking in her town. So, when her friends were making paper boats, Windy would be sleeping. One such day, Windy discovered this little village under where her town. She slowly crept out of her town and went to the village. Suddenly, they were loud noises coming from the village bank. So Windy went to a house to hide there. In the house, Windy saw a little girl sipping a cup of coffee. The girl was suprised to see Windy. Soon, Windy and the girl became friends. The girl was hungry and wanted to eatsomething. So, Windy led her to the ladoos that were in the kitchen. Soon, Windy started coming everyday. Sometimes, when the girl was in school, Windy would play with the girl's brother. One day, the village was going to the waterfalls to celebrate their festival which they give each other gifts, kheer, ladoos and money. So before the village went, Windy wanted to take the kids to her house. So they silently went out of the village and to the clouds. When they reached, the kids could'nt believe their eyes. They could fly and play how much they wanted to. The little girl's brother was flying and examining the little creatures there. The little girl on the other hand, was admiring the town. It was quite an adventure for Windy. After the kids went, Windy was rejoicing and running around the town. Windy was the happiest wind in the whole town.

### Habits  A habit is a sticky thing;Much good or evil it can bring;It binds a victim, holds him fast,And keeps him in a vise-like grasp.  Bad habits grow with extra speed,Much like a healthy,growing weed.The roots grow deep,the stem grows stout;How difficult to pull it out! Good habits are a little slow;They need a lot of care to grow;If tended well,they grow more fairThan any bloom a plant can bear.  Good habits help us all through life;Bad habits bring us pain and strife;Our habits weather right or wrong,Each day will grow more firm and strong. ### To a butterfly  I've watched you now a full half-hour;Self-poised upon that yellow flower;And little Butterfly!indeedI know not if you sleep or feed.How motionless-not frozen seasMore motionless!and thenWhat joy awaits you,when the breezeHath found you out among the trees,And calls you forth again!  This plot of orchard-ground is ours;My trees are there,my Sister's flowers;Here rest your wings when they are weary;Here lodge as in a sanctuary!Come often to us,fear no wrong;We will talk of a sunshine and a song! ### The snare  I hear a sudden cry of pain!There is a rabbit in a snare:Now I hear a cry again,But I cannot tell from where.  But I cannot tell from where.He is calling out for aid!Crying on the frightened air,Making everything afraid!  Making everything afraid!Wrinkling up his little face!And he cries again for aid;-and I cannot find the place!  And I cannot find the place!Where his paw is in the snare!Little one!Little one!I'm searching everywhere! ### Silver  Slowly,silently,now the moonWalks the night in her silver shoon;This way and that,she peers and seesSilver fruit upon silver trees;One by one the casements catchHer beams beneath the silvery thatch;Couched in his kennel,like a log,With paws of silver sleeps the dog;From their shadowy cote of white breasts peepOf doves in a silver-feathered sleep. ### At the seaside  Our seaside summer holidays are as happy as can,we love to build sand castles,and wade out at sea.  And when we find an empty boat,off we quickly goto ask a nearby fisherman,to take us for a row  We ride the horse on the beach,We drive the go kart tooIt is really surprising to thinkof all the things you can do.

HoliIt's holi!There is a lot of cheer around India. Me and my family are getting ready to celebrate holi.We wear ethenic clothes on this day. We play holi on an empty ground. We spray colour water on each other.After we finished spraying water, and after the celebrations are over, we distribute sweets and samosas to the neighbours.Me and my family enjoy holi. Do you? DusseheraOn dussehera, me and my family buy dolls and make a *golu. We make vadas, paysam, sweets and dry rice.I help my grandmother make the food. Then, me and my mother go and invite people who we know to see the golu.In the night, we give sweets to the people who we invited.I like dussehera. Do you? OnamOn onam, we make a rangoli out of jasmine and other coloured flowers. Me and my family go to Kerala to celebrate onam.We first go to my cousins house and then we start making the rangoli. After we finished, we go and watch the boat race.The boat race is held near the islands. After the boat race is over, we rent a boat and go for a row.I love onam. Do you? DiwaliDiwali is creeping close!On this wonderful festival, the whole of India will be filled with light.In english, Diwali is called" the festival of lights". We light diya's and burn crackers on this day.We wear non-synthitic clothes to not get burnt. We make sweets, vada's and pongal. We distribute sweets to the neighbours.I enjoy Diwali. Do you?

Everybody knew that Mama Scholaliked to shout a lot. That day, it was about cows at themarket."Push these silly cows away," shesaid. "They are eating myvegetables." "Hey you there! Push these sillycows away from here," she insisted."They are eating my clothes." "Where is the owner of these sillycows?" she shouted. "They areeating my grains." Sorimpan, the herd boy, had justgone to drink water at a tap whenhis cows wandered off to themarket.He hid away, squatting in fear,when he heard the shoutingwoman. "Now look what these silly cowshave done!" she continued toshout. "They have broken mybeautiful pots." A short time later, "Aah! Not again!"she was heard saying. "I will reportthis matter to the police. These sillycows have knocked down my fruitstand." Sorimpan finally came out stick inhand, dodged between thegathering crowds and managed toget a clear view of his cows.Sorimpan's cows knew him well sothey turned and looked up at him ashe appeared! At this point, the big crowd ofonlookers of men, women and evenchildren all stared at the cowswhich paid attention only toSorimpan. Suddenly, the cows broke theirsilence!They began to talk all at the sametime, criticising the people! The crowds were shocked and stepped back one byone, afraid of the cows.Then the cows stopped talking and watched thecrowd in amazement!But Mama Schola was heard saying, "Since when didcows meddle in our market businesses?" It was Mama Schola's turn to becriticised by the cows!All the other women selling movedto stand with Mama Schola out offear. The cows criticised the women,commenting on the state of theirvegetables, saying,"What kind of vegetables are these?They are all old and drying up!" It was clear that the cows were notyet done!They turned round and faced thecloth-stand and shouted, "You saywe eat your clothes, what clothes?You mean these old rugs! Who willbuy them?" The cows then moved to the nextstand and everybody followed themwith their eyes."Your grains are full of weevils. Whowants to eat that! We only tasted tosee if this is a place to come moreoften!" the cows sneered. "And you Mama Schola," the cowscontinued, "stop making noise. Youtalk of these cracked pots?" Thecows turned their heads towardsMama Schola's pots."They are no good, they break soeasily, so don't blame us."With that, the cows turned and left,followed closely by Sorimpan.

Bong! It was 1'o' clock in the morning on a winter Saturday . As far as Andromeda aka Andi knew , no one was awake except her. Now it was time to put her plan into action. Two nights before, Andi had seen a mystical glowing light in the forest. It had a magical feel to it, and Andi was immediately drawn to it. The next night , she had seen the same thing. And so, she planned a way to see what was the source of the light. Quietly, she stole out of her room with a torch in her hand. She tip toed past the the other dormitories. She breathed a sigh of relief once she was out of the stark, dull brown building. Andi made her way to the dark forest. Quiet as a mouse, she took up her hiding place near one of the clearings to keep watch for the source of the silvery light. Finally, after a long wait, there seemed to be a silvery light approaching. Andi stiffened up and waited. It seemed to take forever, walking almost lazily into the clearing. Then, she saw it! It was a jackal! Andi could hardly believe her eyes! Suddenly, after walking into the clearing, it stopped and tensed. Andi held her breath. Then, it looked straight at her.Andi looked into those bright blue eyes as the world around her began to fade. Her head was swimming and she felt very dizzy...... "And that is why I never went back to that jungle!" Andi told the attentive children sitting around her."Wow!! One more story grandma, please!" the children begged her."No more. Now go ask your grandpa to take you for a boat ride."

Ridhima and Rohan loved painting. They painted all day. They won many art prizes in school. One day, mummy told them that they were moving to a new house. The children were very happy. Mummy told them that they also had to paint the house. They liked the house very much. The builders told them to paint the fence. They happily agreed. After they finished, they asked the builder if they could paint the gate. The builder happily agreed. After they finished, they wanted to paint the house. So they went inside. They had to first clean they house. They cleaned it and then they started painting. They designed the walls with fingerprints and checkers. After they had finished, everyone around the neighbourhood came and praised them. After the people had gone, mummy told them to make paintings. So they made them. They even sold their paintings. Mummy was very pleased with their talent. Ridhima and Rohan were world famous for their paintings. They even started their own little shop. If we want to make something like them, we should love art.

I had never worn shoes before.When I saw children wearingnice shoes, I would look at themwith longing. My mother would say, "You willhave many pairs in the future,just wait!"Sometimes I did not believe her."When is the future?" I askedher one day. Time passed and it was nearlyChristmas.Everybody was busy going tothe market and coming backwith bags of new things."Mother, are we going to themarket?" I asked her. The day before Christmas, mymother woke me up earlier thanusual.She asked me to fetchthe big shopping basket shealways carried to the market. At the open-air market therewere many parents with theirchildren.They were buying new clothesand stocking up on food. We went straight to where therewere many different types ofshoes.My eyes were wide withamazement. I gaped at rowafter row of neatly arrangedshoes. After trying on many pairs, Isettled for black lace-up shoes.At home that night, I couldn'tsleep.I was so excited thinking of howI would wear my new shoes andshow off to every child in thevillage. After a while, I got out of bedand put on the shoes.I walked slowly around the roomand then put the shoes backintothe box.I lay down again, but I couldn'tsleep. I got up and tried on the shoesa second time.I strutted around the room for awhile and then put them back. I lay down once more and triedto sleep. But I got up a thirdtime.I put on the shoes and jumpedaround the room. Then I felttired.I decided to get back into bed. The following morning, I waswoken by my mother. "What isthis I see?" she asked. I was wearing my new shoes inbed!

Once upon a time, there was a girl called Nina. She loved butterflies a lot. One day, Nina saw a lot of butterflies sitting on a flower bush. She wanted to touch and see them. So she ran but the butterflies flew away and she came back sadly. The next day, Nina again went to the flower bush to see the butterflies. But when the butterflies came Nina's mother called her and she couldn't see them. After awhile, Nina came back to the flower bush but it started raining. She waited and waited and waited for a long time. When she really got tired of waiting, she decided to go back home. The next day, she said to her mother rather crossly, “This is the final day, that I am going to the flower to see the butterflies.” After a few minutes, she went back to the flower bush and all the butterflies came. Nina happily played with all of them and she called her Mother and said, “I saw a lot of butterflies come and take a look at it, mother.” Both Nina and her mother, enjoyed the butterflies together.

Gargi liked to go to the beach and sail paper boats. She liked to sing" Row row row your boat , gently by the stream. Merrily merrily merrily merrily life is like a dream." She also loved to build magnificient sand castles. She liked to play in sand and always wanted to remain dirty. "Gargi, come here wash your hands thoroughly," said Mother with a soap-box in her hand."noooooo".....screamed and cried Gargi as if she saw a monster in the soap-box. She kicked Soapy so hard that he flew up and hit the ceiling of the bathroom.Soapy was scared of Gargi and fed up of her tantrums. Her unhygienic habits put her into trouble and Gargi was down with fever. She had to take medicines given by her doctor and that night she saw a dream... The germy brothers Ravu, Takshu, Shaku, Dronu and their evil friends had surrounded her house. They wanted to capture her house and began to kick and punch her .She cried desperately, "Help! Help!"But as she had a sore throat, her voice could not be heard by anyone. Suddenly she heard a stern voice," Better leave Gargi alone or suffer the consequences.""Ha-ha-ha........ We are the most powerful germs on earth known to human beings. How can soap bubbles harm us?" said the evil Duryo with pride. Then it was Soapy versus the germy brothers.The war lasted long. Finally it was the victory of clean over dirty. Gargi was rescued by Soapy. Ta...ra...la...la..la..rum...pum...pum... danced Soapy with joy.Gargi realised that Soapy was her true friend. Her fever had also subsided by now. Next day morning, Mother was surprised but pleased to see Gargi brushing her teeth happily. Neither did she scream or yell at the sight of Soapy. She had learnt a lesson. Soapy helped Gargi to be clean and germ-free.With Soapy around she was not afraid of the germy brothers anymore. She felt safe with Soapy. Birds, butterflies and flowers were smiling with Gargi and Soapy. They all wanted to celebrate their friendship.

This is the giraffe. It has a verylong neck. It eats leafs from talltrees. What colour is thegiraffe? This is the elephant. The males have whitetusks. They have large ears. Elephants havelong trunks that they use to pick leaves off thetall trees. Elephants eat grasses and leaves.What colour is the elephant? This is the crocodile. It lives inthe rivers and lakes. It has along tail. It can open its widemouth to eat fish and otheranimals. What colour is thecrocodile? This is the lion. He has big teethwhich he uses to catch his food.The male lions have amane.Where is the mane onthis lion? This is the crested crane. It isthe symbol of Uganda. It haslong legs and a crown. Whatcolour is the crested crane? This is the water buffalo. It eats grasses andlives near rivers and lakes. What are the thingson the top of its head called? These animals are calledzebras. They have black andwhite strips. What otheranimals look like a zebra? Here are two different animals. Here is amother warthog with her babies. Warthogshave tusks too. Which animal looks like thewarthog?The other animal is the cob. It eats grasses.What colouor is the cob? What are these two animal friends?Where do they live? Which one would you eat?

Once upon a time, there lived aking called Opale with his beautifulqueen.They had only one beautifuldaughter. One day, a king looked at hisprincess and said to his wife, "Ithink our daughter is grown up now,we must find her a handsome manfrom the village." "Who will marry my beautifulprincess?, a king asked himself.He thought of a test for all men whowill come expecting to marry hisdaughter."I am going to cook a pot fullof water and any man who will drinkthis hot water will marry my lovelydaughter." said the king. The following day the king put up an announcementinviting all unmarried men in the village.Announcement!!! Announcement!!!To all young and unmarried men in the village,a kingwants to find a handsome man for his beautifuldaughter.Come, Come, Come all. On hearing the announcement,all young men werevery excited and every body got set for the day. One of the young men told hisfather,I have had that the king hasinvited all young men to hispalace,he wants to choose ahusband for his daughter.Father,"I must go and stand beforethe king,am very sure I will comeback with the princess." As usual,it was a proposed day,aqueue of young and smartlydressed men was seen movingtowards the palace.Every body was very happy. "You are all most welcome"said theking.Then the king began to address thecrowd of young men,If any onedrinks a pot of hot water all atonce,he will be able to my lovelyprincess with him. They were very many in that theinterview could not be completewithin a day.Most men tried their level best butthey could not go with the princess. On the following day,there camemr. Hare who had heard theannouncement late.He was welcomed and given a seat. The king told him,to take mydaughter,one has got to drink a potof hot water all at once.That is nothing to me,my lord,saidmr Hare. Mr. Hare was a very wise and trickyman,he started a very interestingstory that took up the king'sattention while the water wascooling. The chiefs and the king were veryhappy saying, "This is the man wewanted."In a few minutes,the hot water hadcooled and mr. Hare drank it all atonce. The king and his chiefs were verysurprised to see mr. Hare drinkingthe hot water. Finally mr. Hare took the beautifulprincess with him and he was veryhappy but the king remained verysad because his daughter had gonewith an animal.

At the tip of South India, there lies a beautiful beachNo one lives there and it's quite hard to reach!5000 years ago, here Lord Rama had crossed..Looking for his wife Sita, who was lostRavana had taken her to Lanka, across the mighty oceanHow could Rama reach there, for he had no magic potion? Ravana had crossed it in his flying machine, for he was rich!But Lord Rama was poor, so he had to build a bridge.Lord Rama and his vaanar sena began building a bridge of floating stonesBack in Lanka, when Vibheeshana heard this, he got afraid and moaned! But arrogant Ravana refused to listen to his brotherSo Vibheeshana left Lanka to join the camp - other!Finally, the bridge was ready, but Lord Rama's army was in fearTo calm them, and for good luck, to Lord Shiva did Rama send a prayer.. All this happened at Dhanushkodi, a place that is a ghost townPeople used to live there, until the place was destroyed by a cycloneEven now, the temple here has the miraculous floating stonesYou can reach here by jeepwhich rides in the water deep,but the ride may make your bones groan!

After finishing her dinner, sitting on bed Aditi looked out of the window. She saw the bright moon. " How I wish I go to moon." she thought.Immediately, Aditi found herself flying . Soon she landed on the moon.she wanted to play there. She built a sand castle on the moon and decorated it with the moon stones found there. Suddenly she felt hungry. She started exploring the moon for food, but could find nothing. She wanted to return home and eat something.. But how? She could not find her way back home.She started crying. At that time, she felt like someone touching her. It was a fluffy cloud. The cloud said," Aditi, Don't cry. I shall take you home. Sit on me." Aditi happily sat on the cloud. The cloud started moving. Eyes wide opened Aditi was looking around. She saw an aeroplane passing by. She tried to reach the plane but could not. So Aditi came to the edge of the cloud to reach the plane. Now, the cloud lost balance and flipped. And so Aditi started to fall down. That was scary for her. She was about to scream. At that time she could hear her mom calling her," Aditi wake up. It will be late for school."Aditi woke up and saw herself on her bed.Oh! . It was all a dream.

Once upon a time, in Joburg'sOrange Grove, a little girl calledPhylliswas born into the world.Two people in love, huggedtheir sweet little babe. No-oneknew then,what a dancer they'd made. By the time she was four,she had learned very quick.She impressed all her teachers,with her ducky feet flicks!Before school and after,she danced everyday.Nothing pleased Phyllis,more than ballet. When the world was readyfor Phyllis at fifteen,She arrived in big, old London,ready to live her dream.She said goodbye to all herfriends.She was ready to start fresh.Watch out Royal Ballet School!Phyllis is here to impress. When Phyllis danced SwanLake,it was fit to show the Queen!After years of pirouetting,she was ready to be seen.Dancing for the audience,she turned and twirled about.Look! Everyone is smiling!See how they clap and shout! From Mexico to Canada.From the USA to France.Phyllis travelled far and wide,so the world could see herdance.With the Royal Ballet Company,and her ballerina friends,she spread her love for ballet.She never wanted it to end. Phyllis always knew,that dance was in her heart.But she longed to return homeagain,and make a fresh new start.So she leaped and bounded,back to her beautiful land.Her ballerina roots wereregrown.She was once more SouthAfrican. Dancing wasn't just for fun,as Phyllis always knew.She'd work at dancing day andnight,and with hard work she grew.Always smiling, always trying,through good times andthrough tough,Phyllis always did her best.She couldn't get enough. Romeo and Juliet,Swan Lake and Giselle.Phyllis danced these for thepeople:graceful, tireless, well.With partners Gary Burneand Eduard Greyling too,her magnificence inspired theaudience.To her, flowers they threw. Reward comes easily,when you put yourself to thetest.Phyllis came to realise this,once she was called 'The Best.'She was awarded 'PrimaBallerina Assoluta.'The greatest dancer of them all!Phyllis would be forever known.She wanted nothing more. Goodness! What a catch!Phyllis met her loving partner.His name was Phillip Boyd.He was another dancer.Together they were married.and together they would dance.No-one could be bettermatched,given half the chance! Though they had no children,Phyllis and Phillip were neversad.They two of them found anotherwayto help other Mums and Dads.They started Dance For All,a special school for dance.So that children with no money,could also learn to prance! She left a legacy of dance,and incredible success.Her magic was passed on toothersto help them become their best.Her students spread across theworld,inspired by her ducky feet.They dance on while we watch,dreaming from our seats.

A little girl got Teddy Bear and a Barbie doll on her birthday. Her friends gifted her toys. From that day she is playing with that Teddy bear and the Barbie. After coming from school she takes the Teddy bear and gives it a Flying kiss . Then her mother saw this practice and one day her mother stopped her by saying why are you doing that. O! Mummy this is my favorite teddy and this is my favorite Barbie. Can't I give them a flying kiss. Then mother told you can but you should give them a proper wash before playing them.The little girl did not follow what her mother asked her to do. Next day, After coming from school she slept and her mother throwed away both the toys. When she got up and started looking for the toys, could not find them. Then her mother asked what are you searching for. I am searching for my two toys then her mother told her when you were sleeping I throwed them away as they are very dirty.Then the little girl asked her mother to buy two new toys, as she missed both her favorite toys. My dear daughter, be ready by 5 0'clock. We will go to exhibition for rides, to play games and to the toys shop in the end, before starting for home. Then the girl and mother went as planned and brought food items and Toys – Rabbit, Tiger and a Turtle. From then on, the little girl kept her toys neat and tidy.Then her mother told you are my lovely and favorite daughter in the whole world. She asked why is it so mom, and mother told you kept your promise and doing your home work regularly and keeping your books and toys very neat and your teachers are told me you are behaving very well in the school and you got very good marks in Quarterly exams.Now I am going to give surprise, saying this, her mother gave her a new Teddy bear and a Barbie doll set t-ind %

A girl went to a place, that was a forest. When she went there flood came because of rain. There was a bear, that was watching that girl thinking that what she is doing there. All of a sudden fishes have started raining from the sky and bear started catching the fishes. The girl saw the bear and was frightened and fell down.After some time she woke up because of the rain drops. Bear was good. It didn't do any harm to the girl. The girl was hungry, she didn't had anything to eat. Bear gave so many fishes to her & they became friends. Next day the rain was coming and coming, they didn't had any shelter for hiding. Bear was telling that tomorrow is my birthday and i think tomorrow will also rain. She forgot that she had a birthday cake with her. She remembered that she had a cake. Next day, rain stopped and the girl asked bear to close the eyes, after some time (after arranging the birthday cake) asked bear to open the eyes and showed the table with cake. Bear never saw anything like this before, so it was very happy. Bear blew the candles, as the girl sang happy birthday song. The girl never left the bear, she lived along with the bear, lifelong. They lived happily.

Once upon a time, there lived a tortoise, who had workedvery hard during his entire life. When he retired, he received a nice lump sum of money. He decided that he would buy a big piece of land with themoney, and become a farmer. News spread all over the village that Tortoise was looking forland to buy. When Hare heard the news, he had an idea! He rushed tosee Tortoise and said:"Mr Tortoise! I can help you find land to buy. Come with me!" That very same day, Hare took Tortoise to visit a plot. Hepointed to a large field and said:"I own all this land!" Tortoise was impressed.After bargaining for a while, they agreed ona price and Tortoise paid for the land. The next day, Tortoise got up bright and early. He gatheredsome of his friends together and they went with their tools tovisit the farm. They wanted to prepare it for planting. When they reached, all they could see was water!"Where is your land?" they asked, unable to contain theirlaughter. Tortoise realised that hehad been tricked.Hare had sold him abeach, and when thetide came in, all thatwas left was the sea.There was no farm land. Tortoise went straight away to see Elephant, who was thehighest judge in the land, and told him what had happened.Elephant ordered lion to go and find Hare and bring him tothe court. When Hare heard lion coming, heran out and said: "I am so happy tosee you lion, but I have to run. Wilddogs have invaded our village!"As soon as he was out of sight,Hare ran from house to house,howling like a wild dog. Lion could hear the howling wild dogs coming from alldirections, and shaking with fear, he ran away. And hare too ran away,with all of Tortoisesmoney!Tortoise was sad, but hehad many friends whohelped him find anotherpiece of land to farm.

There lived a girl named Cinderella. she is a sweet girl who had a bad step mother and two naughty sisters who always trouble her. She does all the work in the home. She loves singing. She had two little friends which live on the tree. Those birds look really very beautiful with blue shiny feathers. They used to help Cinderella to manage the work. They also even sing songs to make her happy. One day the king announced that all the beautiful girls should gather at the palace so that he can select the most beautiful girl for his son's marriage. All the girls in the kingdom felt very excited to participate. On the day of event every girl in the kingdom got themselves ready to impress the prince. The two sisters of Cinderella also went to the event. Cinderella also wanted to attend the event. But her step mother did not allowed her to go. Cinderella even did not have any good dress to wear. She felt very sad and started crying. An angel who was watching Cinderella gifted her with beautiful long frock and lovely shoes. Cinderella thanked her a lot and attended the event. The prince got impressed with her beauty and married her. Cinderella got married to the prince and lead a happy life thereafter.

There was onlyone bus inEbei's village.It was big and blue.It was very noisy. One day, Ebei'smother said,"Tomorrow we willgo to town to buyyour school uniform." Ebei was very excited.They would travelin the big bluebus.He could not sleepthat night. Ebei was alreadydressed when hismother came towake him. Ebei and his motherwalked to thebus stop.They waited forthe big blue bus.But the busdid not come. Other people arrivedat the bus stop.They complainedbecause the buswas late."Has the busleft us?"they asked. Ebei was worried."We will not be ableto go to town.I will not be ableto get my uniform,"he thought. Some people gave upand went home.But Ebei cried anddid not want to go.His mothercomforted him."We will waita bit longer," she said. Suddenly, they hearda noise.They saw dustin the air.The bus was coming! But this bus was notblue. It was not big.This bus was redand small.The waiting peoplelooked at this bus.They did not get in. "Get in! Get in!"shouted the driver."We are very latetoday," he said. Ebei and his mothergot in first.Soon everyone elsegot in the smallred bus. Ebei looked out thewindow. He sawmore people atthe bus stop. Even more peoplewere running tocatch the bus.But they were too late.The bus was full.The red bus leftfor town. "Where is the bigblue bus?" askedEbei's mother."It broke down,"replied the driver."We are fixing it.It will come tomorrow,"he added. Ebei did not careabout the colour ofthe bus.He did not careabout the size ofthe bus.He was happybecause this buswas going to town.

Once there was a boy named Ramesh. He was very brave and wise. He worked in other town to make money and help his parents. One day he wanted to see his mother. So he took permission from his master and started his journey on foot. There was a big forest to cross to reach his village. He reached the forest within 30 minutes. He took rest for a while and again started his journey through the forest. In the mid of the jungle he saw a thief riding on a horse. He thought of a plan to get rid of him. He bravely went to the thief and asked him to accompany him to his home. The thief agreed so that he could loot all the family. When they reached home, he immediately went to his mother and told that the man who accompanied him was a thief! But he said not to worry and explained the plan. Then his mother gave the thief honey mixed with sleeping medicine. He drank it and immediately fell asleep. They took him to a dried well and dumped him there. Ramesh called all the villagers. And they found that hewas the thief they were searching for more than five years. All praised the brave boy.

Once upon a time , there lived a beauty queen in a village called tungatoor.The queen was so beautiful that the whole village was fond to see her.One fine morning, a news broke that the queen has fallen sick and doctors from all over the kingdom tried to save her from the disease. But, the prayers of villagers and doctors went into vain. Atlast the queen had to leave her last breathe and died.After this incident, there was so much disturbances in the village. Like, ther was no rains, kingdom suffered with many diseases and people died. This is continued till there was an other girl born in the same family of that of queen's and who was also named as "devishta" same as the queen's.After that birth, the kingdom regained its state as it was earlier. The mystery behind the death of queen and village devastation was not yet known.

Once upon a time there was a frog named Croaky. He was just the opposite of his name as he couldn't croak. But he could talk like humans. His home was near the sea-shore and he usually went to play in the sea. So one day while playing he asked a dolphin, "what sound do you make?" The Dolphin just clicked and whistled and swam away. After that Croaky swam back to the shore and he saw a rat running past. He stopped the rat and asked," What sound do you make?" The rat didn't understand Croaky's language, so he squeaked and ran away. Finally he saw a man and asked " Hi! My name is Croaky? Could you help me?" The boy was astonished to see a talking frog and asked Croaky how could he speak this language. Croaky explained that when he was born he heard some humans taking like that and that's where he picked up this language. The man was surprised and asked how could he help. Croaky asked" Could you teach me how to Croak?" The man said, " I'll try give me sometime. The man went inside his home which was nearby and switched on his computer. He asked Google how do frogs croak and this is what he read : Try to burp and chirp like a cricket at the same time. Do this fifty times for practice and you are done. He switched off his computer and went out to tell Croaky the same thing, " Burp and chirp like a cricket and do this fifty times for practice and you are done." Croaky said thank you to the man and went back to his home. He practiced as the man had asked him and he was able to croak. Croaky could really croak now, just like his name. All thanks to that man and google.THE END

It was a holiday for Abhinav. He saw a cat. He was reminded of his cartoon character Oggy. This must be Oggy he thought. He rushed to his mom and asked for milk to feed his Oggy. He left the milk in a sauce and soon the cat drank way. He gave milk to the cat everyday and soon both of them turned friends. He also started talking to Oggy," Oggy , you should be strong enough to drive away those cockroaches. Drink milk and become strong." And this became as one of his daily jobs. Some days passed. One day after coming from school and finishing his homework , he sat to watch his catoon "Oggy and the Cockroaches." But he found there was no change in the behaviour and attitude of Oggy. He asked his mom," Mom I gave so much milk and advised Oggy to win over the cockroaches. But still Oggy behaves the same and gets into trouble. "His mom said," Your friend cat and Oggy are different. It is not Oggy." "Oh!....... If my cat is not Oggy, then why should I give milk for the cat?" Abhinav asked.His mom said " Abhinav, The cat is your friend. Also we have to share food and stuff with others because......." "Because........ sharing is caring " Abhinav completed and added," My teacher taught me this."Yes. He is right.

It was a hot summerday in the dry forest. Little Ant had no waterfor many days. "I need a drop of water,even if it falls from aleaf." But even the dew haddried up. "If I don't drink, I willdie," cried Little Ant."I must go to the river Ihave heard about." "The river will sweepyou away," a wisesquirrel warned him. But Little Ant was sothirsty."I will die if I don't drinksome water." Little Ant went to lookfor the river... across dry grass andover dry branches... ...until he heard thewaves of the riversplashing. Little Ant took a longsip of cool water. He was so happy he didnot see the huge wavecoming. Ant tried to grab thedry grass floating pasthim.But he was swept awayby the water. "Help someone. Helpme please." "Quick, climb on," saidWhite Dove, holding abranch in his beak.  "I cannot leave until Isay thank you to thedove. I will wait until hecomes back to drink." One day as he waited,two boys came to theriver with theirslingshots. "There is a big whitedove that comes hereto drink," said one boy."We will have it forsupper tonight."  "I cannot let the boyskill White Dove.But I am so tiny, whatcan I do?" Just then White Doveflew down from the treeto drink.  Little Ant had an idea. He jumped onto oneboy's foot, and bit himas hard as he could. The boy jumped."Ouch!" he cried. White Dove wasstartled and flew awayto safety. That was how Little Antthanked White Dove forsaving him.

One day, Dia was listening to the story of king Thutankan. It was a very sad story. Dia felt hungry. Amma gave her pakodas. It made her feel better. Collette was a nice girl, but she was weak in studies. This made her very miserable. Mom gave her some milk and biscuits. She was no longer a weak girl. Baloo was a greedy bear. He liked eating sardines. One day, the lake had dried up and there was no water. So Baloo made a wish that it would rain fish. And it did!Baloo ate till his heart was contended. Merani was a little girl. She loved pakodas and gujias. But her mother was not buying them for her. She felt sad. One day, her mom bought pakodas for her. It made Merani happy. Madhu and her mother were making a kolam for pongal. After putting the kolam, Madhu was tired. But her mother gave her Thepla's. Madhu was not tired anymore.So, remember folks!!!! FOOD MAKES EVERYTHING BETTER!!!!

This is my teacher.Her name is Teacher Akinyi.She loves me a lot. Teacher Akinyi teaches us the alphabet and the vowels.I can say the letters a, e, i, o, u. Teacher Akinyi has taught us the colours red, blue, green, yellow, and black. During nap time Teacher Akinyi sings us to sleep.She sings a lullaby to us. The lullaby goes like this:Golden slumber give your eyesSmiles await you when you riseSleep pretty darlings, do not cryAnd I'll sing you a sweet lullaby. Teacher Akinyi knows many stories.She tells us a different story each day of the week. On Monday, she tells us stories about great men. On Tuesday, she tells us stories about great women. On Wednesday, she tells us stories about means of transport. On Thursday, she tells us stories about farming. And on Friday, Teacher Akinyi asks us to tell our own stories to the class. Our teacher is the best teacher in the world!When I grow up, I want to be like Teacher Akinyi.

Long time ago, no animal had legs.They all used to crawl on the ground. Only human beings had legs because Maguru had given legs to humans. One day, Maguru decided to give legs to every animal.He walked round the village announcing from a loudspeaker.He wanted each animal to walk like a human being. The animals were happy when they heard that they would be given legs.Each animal wanted to have legs so that it could walk and run.They sang, wagged their tails and flapped their wings. Animals gathered and discussed how difficult it was to crawl.The ground scratched their bellies.Legs would also help them to stand and see far, like human beings did. When the day came, many animals crawled to Maguru's house to get their legs.Giraffes, lions, elephants, rabbits, crocodiles, and birds queued and waited to be given legs. Each animal was given four legs.Birds were given two legs each. Animals looked different on legs.Some danced in joy.Others had difficulty walking and fell down. They walked round the village showing off to human beings.All the animals said, "We will never crawl again." The last animal in the queue was the millipede.Maguru asked, "Is there anyone else after you?""No, I am the last one," Millipede answered. Maguru thought, "If there is no one else, what will I do with the rest of the legs?"Maguru gave all the remaining legs to Millipede. Millipede went away very happy because he had many legs."I will move faster than any of them," he thought. As soon as Millipede had left, the snake came to Maguru's house."Maguru, please give me some legs," Snake begged. "I have given out all the legs. Where were you?" Maguru asked."I over-slept," Snake replied. Maguru checked in his house to see whether there were any legs remaining.But he did not find any. Maguru came out and said, "Sorry, Snake, there are no legs remaining." Snake had to crawl back home without legs.Since that day Snake does not sleep much.He is always waiting for the next chance to get legs.

Ismail wakes up at a quarter to seven in themorning, just after the first cockcrow. Fifteenminutes later he eats breakfast.What time does Ismail eat breakfast? After breakfast at seven in themorning he packs his bag andgets ready for school. Half anhour later he is ready.What time is it now? At seven thirty he goes toschool. Ismail has a long way towalk, since his school is inanother village. At 8:10 hereaches his school.How long was the walk? Ismail likes the forty-minute walk to schoolevery morning since it is cool outside. In theafternoon it is too hot to walk that far, hethinks. Ismail reaches school 20 minutes beforethe first lesson.What time is the first lesson? The first lesson of the day startsat 8:30. The teacher alwayscomes five minutes late.What time does the teachercome? At 8:35 the teacher comes andstarts the lesson. The teachercontinues up to break at 10:30.How long has the teacher beenteaching? Almost two hours – one hourand fifty-five minutes – to beexact, the teacher has beenteaching. The break lasts for 30minutes. Halfway through thebreak Ismail has finished hisporridge.What time is it now? After finishing his porridge at 10:45, Ismail plays football, and then goes back toclass. His next meal is lunch at one o'clock.How much time is there between Ismail's porridge and his lunch? Two hours and forty-fiveminutes after eating porridge,Ismail has his one-hour lunchbreak. It ends at 2 o'clock.Ismail has two lessons left, andeach is half an hour long.What time does Ismail finishschool? At 3 o'clock school is over and Ismail goes home. He reaches 45 minutes later.When does he reach home? When Ismail reaches home at3:45 in the afternoon he playswith his little brother and hisfriends. Sometimes he doeschores that his parents ask himto do. At 7 in the evening heeats his supper.How long has it been ?since hereached home? After playing for three hoursand fifteen minutes, Ismail eatshis supper quickly. He is alwayshungry. But he also gets tiredfrom eating. By nine thirty he isusually in bed. But hisgrandmother always tells him astory before he sleeps. Fiveminutes to ten his grandmotherhas told her story and Ismail isready to sleep.How long was the story? Ismail's grandmother spent 25minutes telling her story?How much time did you spendreading this one?

Akash is a little boy who loves sweets. He loves yummy laddoos, cupcakes, pudding and cakes. He talks about it to his friends and sneaks yummy cupcakes into his bed. He has never stopped dreaming about it. All he can think of is something sweet for his sweet tooth. He sneaks every night to have some sugar. He imagines a cake awaiting for him in his dream. However he refuses to brush his teeth at night even though mommy and daddy has warned him about tooth monsters. One day he went to bed, just as usual dreaming about his cake he saw a huge monster went whoosh into his mouth and scared him. The monster said "I will eat all your teeth away if you don't brush your teeth". Akash woke up crying and running frantically to his parents. He said "mom and dad, I will not go to bed without brushing my teeth from now on, I do not want tooth monster." Mom and dad were surprised and definitely excited that Akash wanted to brush his teeth. Not only that day Akash started brushing every morning and evening so he can enjoy all his sweets without worrying about germs.Good bye germs.

Once god came to earth. He is god - recognized by peacock and gave him a peacock eye. He adored it, on head. He is god - recognized by bamboo and gave him a bamboo shoot. He adored it in hand as flute -'murali'. He is god - recognized by bushes and trees, gave him flowers. He adored them as garland-'mala'. He is god - recognized by cow and gave him milk and followed him. He has become lord 'Krishna'. He has seen beggar, asking for alms. He appeared before him. Beggar thought him as another beggar, in krishna's attire. He told him, he is busy seeking alms. He went to him , in the shape of human, and the beggar asked him for alms, and he gave.God then decided, to help humans, I come in human shape, they donot recognise any other form. To save any other being, I will go as god!

Vladmir was a young boy living in Russia. It was snowing like never before there. He wanted to go out, but his parents would not let him out as it was very cold. But he was stubborn with his decision. Days passed. He was bored sitting in is house. He thought that it was a jailed life in his house. He used to take a peep at the snow from the window every now and then. Now he was frustrated and couldn't resist his feelings!! Once when their parents were having a small nap, he proved himself as a naughty boy. He opened the door stealthily and lo! he was at his destination. The paradise of snow outside. He wore all the winter costumes too. He imagined the most common thing with snow. "Idea snowman!!" he exclaimed. He began with his work. He enjoyed making the snowman. He also enjoyed the cool atmosphere in the outside winter world. But a constant fear kept haunting him "what if I am caught red handed by mom and dad?" he was sure he was gonna be beaten. His mom was seeing all these from the window without Vladmir's knowledge. Vladmir decided to tell the truth. He entered inside his house. His mom was just in front of him, angry and frustrated. This time Vladmir knew he had to tell the truth. Just before his mom started scolding him, he just asked a moment and blurted out the truth. His mom was rather angry but was very happy as his son told the truth. His mom accepted his apology and warned him not to do these things once again. "There is nothing bigger than Mom's love in this world," Vladmir thought

Once upon a time in Donkgoat village there was a donkey named Silly and a goat named Billy. One day Silly was watching television . On television he was watching ministry of petrol pumps. So Silly decided to meet the ministry of petrol pumps. They packed their bags and left. They went to Dester station to catch a subway at 6;00 am. Silly was lazy but Billy was active and so they woke up early and ran to the station and boarded the subway. So Silly got subway-sick . He lay down and Billy watched the wonderful sight. They got off at Genter station. Now they bought a Slackcar (A snake type car) for 7,955 Donklet (currency of Donkgoat). They travelled the rest of journey in the Slackcar. At last they met the ministry of petrol pumps.They forgot what they were there for. They took a lot of time to think but could not remember. They both were wagging their tails while thinking. And yet they could not remember. So they shook hands with the Ministry of Petrol Pumps and left for home.They lived happily ever after.THE END.

This is a Seahorse.It is mostly found in shallow tropical and temperate waters throughout the world. This is an Octopus.Octopuses inhabit diverse regions of the ocean, including coral reefs and the ocean floor. This is a Clown Fish.Clown Fish are native to warmer waters and live at the bottom of shallow seas in sheltered reefs or in shallow lagoons. These are Dolphins.They are found across the world with most species of Dolphins preferring the warmer waters of the tropical zones. A few species however prefer colder climates. This is a Sea Turtle (also known as Marine Turtle)Sea turtles can be found in all oceans except for the polar regions. This big fish here is a Manta Ray.Mantas are found in temperate, subtropical and tropical waters. This is a Starfish (also known as Sea Stars).Starfishes are found in salt waters all over the world, from the Atlantic Ocean to the Indian Ocean and beyond.

Kala was staying with his Mom.They lived in a big house. Kalawas a spoiled boy. His Momloved him very much. He goteverything that he wanted. It was a bright, sunny Saturdaymorning. It was the start of theschool holidays.Kala woke up later than usual.He was excited and ready to goout in the street to play with hisfriends. Kala's Mom was working in hervegetable garden. She saw herson running out through thedoor. On the kitchen table there wasa big basket full of a variety offruits. Kala called out to hisMom, asking for an apple."Did you bath?'' asked his Mom."Did you brush your teeth?" sheasked too."Yes Mom!" answered Kala."Ok, you can have one," sheagreed. Kala immediately chose the biggest, juiciestapple from the fruit basket. He then dashedoutside towards his favourite playing area. After a few seconds, Mom heardKala screaming."Aah, Mom!" called Kala. "Mom, my apple is bleeding!" he said.His Mom was busy in the kitchen and Kala burst throughthe door. "Why are you making such a noise Kala," askedhis Mom. "What is it?" "My apple is bleeding, look," he said again.Kala's Mom stopped what she was doing andturned to look at her son. She had a surpriselook on her face. She took the apple from Kala's hand and looked at it."Come here and open your mouth," she order Kala."Aah," opened Kala wide. Mom bend a little and peepedinto her son's mouth. "It's not the apple that is bleeding, you little, lazy, naughty boy. It's your filthy,yellow rotting teeth!" she shouted."You do not brush your teeth as told!" she said with a cross face. All that Kala feltas he escaped through the door, was his behind getting warm from his Mom'sdish cloth!

Tilia and Max lived in Carlafonia. It was the 1960's. Their getting up routine was to get up and brush. In those days, they used to brush with wood and cream. They found it very difficult to brush because the toothbrush was made out of wood and they used cream as paste. Soon, the whole country started complaining about the paste. Granny's teeth had rot. People started putting the cans of cream in the junkyard. So one day, Mr. Wilbur, the owner of the cream factory was passing a painting and he saw the painter pouring paint out of a tube. So he got an idea. So he thought he would make pastes like painting tubes. He put in sugar and wood. And he also put in fruits, vegetables, neem and cloves. In 2 days time, the toothpastes were made. From that day on, people did'nt have to use cream!

One time it happened in avillage that a gang of youngpeople decided to kill all the oldpeople so that they would stopdoing magic. But one of the youth ran offwith his father and hid him inthe desert. After he had done this, the gangbegan killing the old people. Just then a snake came into thevillage from the desert. Thesnake went into the stomach ofa small child. The snake kept poking its headout of the mouth of the child. The parents of the child and allthe other people triedeverything to solve thisproblem. But they saw that ifthey killed the snake theywould also kill the child. Then the young man who hadhidden his father went and toldhim everything that hadhappened.?And the old man said, "That'sthe easiest thing in the world totake care of." The old man said, "Find a toadand put it near the snake. You'llsee that the snake will comeout of the child's stomach tocatch the toad.?The young man did just whatthe old man said. And the snakecame out and started to chasethe toad. The child was savedfrom death.

It was a snowy morning. Oliver woke up from bed and went to the bathroom, to brush his teeth. Then he took his bath. His mom gave him his breakfast. He ate it and packed his bag to school. The school bus came to pick him up at 7am. He was very excited because he was eager to sign up for the upcoming cross country race at his school. His teacher told him that he could sign up, but he needed to practice well and take care of his health and keep fit. Oliver loved to eat chocolates, muffins, cookies and chips. He could be found munching on these, all the time. He became very fat and could hardly play with his pup. He really had a bad time at school with all the kids teasing him. While playing a game of tag at school, he could not even run! He expressed to his mom, all that he was going through. His mom felt very sad for him but she made him understand that he has to give up his unhealthy eating habits and turn a new leaf. To take part in the race, he needed to be fit. So his mom signed him up in a gym nearby, and in swimming classes to get him fit. He got very tired after the school and the gym class. He felt so bad, that he could not go to the running race, because he was fat! So he started to exercise with vigour and enthusiasm. Because of the training in the gym and eating healthy food, Oliver got fit and felt very happy. It was Sports day at school and his teacher wished him good luck, pleased with his efforts. He ran so fast and won the race! Everyone cheered him, "Oliver is the fastest, Oliver is the fastest", and he got a huge Golden trophy for securing the 1st place. He hugged his mom and thanked her for all her support and felt very happy and proud of his achievement.

There lived a cute and happy family consists of three members, mother and her two children. They lived very peaceful and happy life. Ram, sita and Shanta. Once their mother fall ill and died after 1 week. Poor Ram and sita they are just small kids they don't know what had happened to their mother. They had no one except their mother but she is no more. They don't even had money to eat and drink. Ram used to work as a child labour and earn a little amoun of money for his sister sita. He takes care of his sister very well, he never keep his sister hunger and sad. He educate his sister in a government school and make her big officer. After some years later. She cry about how her brother Ram looks after his sister from her food to education. she became an officer in a big company and brings a salary of 50,000 per month, and takes a decision that now her time to take care of her brother Ram. They now settled and lead comfort and peaceful life.

Long time ago, in the village ofElunyiko, there lived a mancalled Ndong'a and his wifecalled Namukhaywa. They hadsix children. All of them weregirls. When Namukhaywa waspregnant with her seventhchild, Ndong'a warned her, "Ifyou give birth to another girl, Iwill leave you. But if you giveme a baby boy, I will hold a bigparty for you!" When it was time to give birth,Namukhaywa went to thetraditional midwife. Would thechild be a girl or a boy? It was a boy AND a girl – twins!She called the boy Mukhwana,and the girl she called Mulongo.As she looked at Mukhwana,she was very happy. But as shelooked at Mulongo, she felt sad.She felt that there was only onething she could do. Namukhaywa left Mulongo inthe care of the midwife andtook Mukhwana home to herhusband. She proudly showed Ndong'athe baby boy. He was veryhappy and called all thevillagers to celebrate the birthof his son. Mukhwana grew up to be a fineyoung man. And Mulongo grewup to be a fine young woman. One day, while minding hisfather's cattle, Mukhwana saw avery beautiful girl."This is the girl I want tomarry," he said to himself. But when he asked her to marryhim, she sang this song:"Mukhwana wefwe, Mukhwana.So yakhupa omunwa,Mukhwana.Nebebula omukhana,Mukhwana.Barulaka khulwanda,Mukhwana.Nebebula omusiani, Mukhwana.Barera mungo muno,Mukhwana.Iyeyi yakwa, Mukhwana.Iyindi yakwa, Mukhwana." This happened again and again.Mukhwana did not know whatto do. So he went to his mother,Namukhaywa."I have found a beautiful girl,"he said. "And I want to marryher. But every time I ask her,she sings the same song." To his surprise, Namukhaywasaid, "What the girl is singingabout is true. That is your sister.You were born twins. Your fatherwanted a son, not a daughter.So I left your baby sister withthe midwife, and brought youhome to your father." When Mukhwana told his fatherthe story, he saw that he hadbeen wrong. He calledNamukhaywa and together theywent to the midwife to fetchMulongo. When Mulongo arrived home,her father and the village eldersslaughtered a goat andperformed the traditionalceremony forre-uniting Mulongo and herseven siblings. A year later, Mulongo wasmarried to the son of the richking of that village. She broughta lot of wealth and happiness toher family.

A long time ago, in the villageof Nyamani, there lived a manknown as Kiundu.He liked to eat meat a lot. One day, the chief of Nyamanivillage invited all the villagersto his son's wedding. Kiundu also heard that therewas another wedding party inKatumbi village."Ugh! Two parties on the sameday!" Kiundu thought. "I must attend both parties,"Kiundu said."I will first walk to Katumbi thencome back to Nyamani." Kiundu woke up early in themorning and walked to Katumbivillage.He looked around and saw thatthe party had not yet started."I will go back to Nyamani andreturn to Katumbi later," Kiundudecided. Kiundu walked back to Nyamanihoping to find the meat ready.He was now very hungry.When he arrived, men were stillpreparing the food. "I left cooks at Katumbipreparing to cook," he thought."The food must be ready now."Kiundu decided to go back toKatumbi. When Kiundu arrived at theKatumbi party, people hadalready eaten.Guests were giving presents tothe bride and the groom.Kiundu was very mean.He did not have a present togive. He only wanted to eat. Kiundu was very disappointedabout missing the food.He decided to walk back toNyamani village.Because he was hungry andtired, he could not walk fast. When he arrived at Nyamanivillage, people were singing anddancing.They had already eaten all thefood. Upon hearing that there was nofood, Kiundu fell and fainted.He had missed meat from bothparties.All he got was some porridge ina small cup. Slowly, he walked home sadand hungry.

Once upon a time there was a HAUNTED HOUSE . One day a boy was going to his friend's house.Suddenly he heard some strange sound coming from the lane. He got very curious he wanted to go inside the house, he wanted to see what is inside it. Then he went inside the house. He did not know which house is it. But suddenly he remembered that his mother always advised him not to go to stranger's house. He did not listen to his mother's word and he opened the gate and went inside because he was very curious. He heard some strange sound and he got scared. He saw one ghost coming out of the room and going in. The boy got very scared he ran to the second floor but he did not see anybody. Then suddenly wind was blowing on his face and he could not see who is blowing the wind on his face because it was very fast. Then the boy ran to third floor. He saw a man and asked him," Why are you crying? The man said," I was on the road searching for the barber's shop. Then I saw this HAUNTED HOUSE ". The man did not know that this house was haunted and he thought that this is a barber's shop. And when he entered the house he got scared and he came to the third floor. The man told the boy that he was here since 50 days! The boy said that he did not know that this is a haunted house. And the boy told the man that he was going to his friends house and he heard some strange sound coming from the house so he ran to the house. The man got an idea!. He recollected once a guy was trying to cross the road putting on his headphones and so he was not scared of the traffic since he could not hear the noises of the traffic. But the man said that where we will get these headphones from. The boy said he always carries two headphones with him, one for himself and another for his friend. Both of them put on their headphones and easily got out of the haunted house. And then they went back to their homes safely ever after.

Starry cloudfire, the dragon, lived in cloud haeven. He was'nt a normal dragon who could breathe fire, he could breathe clouds. Every day, he sat by his window and watched the fire breathing dragons play with their fire. Starry wished he was one of them. One day, Zeus, the Greek god, invited all the dragons of cloud haeven to a party at his palace. Starry was very excited. On his way to the palace, he came across an unfamiliar land. Then, Starry noticed that this land was on a drought. He wanted to bring back life into the land. So after 2 days, the land rejoiced for Starry had brought life back to the land. They made Starry their new heir. So after all the rejoicing, Starry went to king Zeus's party. King Zeus heard the story of the land and gave him a boon that he could breathe fire, ice, clouds, water and grass. Starry refused to accept the boon. Can you guess what he wanted? He just wanted to live a happy life in the land of the unknown.

The moon and the stars were very good friends. After Mr. Sun would go home in the evening, they would all come out to play in the night's sky and light up the whole world with their sparkle! The stars would slide on the moon, dance around him and play hide and seek. This would go late into the wee hours after midnight.It was indeed a beautiful and celestial sight - The midnight sky, the silver moon with it's cool golden beam and the sparkling stars. The children down below, enjoyed viewing the magical playground above. One night Mr. Moon slept in as he was feeling tired and was not in the mood to play. But the stars came out on time and began to call out to Mr. Moon."Mr. Moon, Mr. Moon come out now. Let's play catch and cook" But there was no response.After having waited for a while, the stars began to play among-st themselves. Seeing this, Mr. Moon went red with anger. He felt neglected and like a little child he came out screaming and shouting at the stars. He said some very harsh and mean things to them. The stars felt hurt and left the night's sky never wanting to return. For many days the stars didn't come out. The sky looked empty and vacant. Mr. Moon was very sad. He missed the stars. The children below too were sad to see the lonely moon.One evening, Mr. Sun before leaving for his home, called out to Mr. Moon and said " My dear Mr. Moon, you miss your star friends so much. You know you have done a wrong thing by saying such harsh things to them. Now make up for your mistake by apologizing and calling out to them".Mr. Moon saw sense and began to call out to the stars. He apologized for his behavior and invited them warmly to play with him. The stars listened to Mr. Moon and accepted his apology and thanked him for his invitation. The stars came gushing out and filled the sky with glitter and star dust once again! The moon was only too happy to see his friends after a long lonely gap.The sky looked beautiful once again with the moon, the stars, and the all the glitter.The children too were happy to see the sparkling sky and the bright moon amongst the diamond like stars.

There lived a girl called Mavis, she was a fifth grader. At home she grew a garden with all sorts of things like tomatoes, flowers, and potatoes. She took very good care of her garden. So, it all started one day when Mavis was at school, she heard about a poster on the wall. She was so curious that she wanted to check this poster out after school.So it was after school when Mavis was searching for that poster everyone was talking about. And as she was passing through the lunch hall she immediately bumped into the poster. The poster was about a competition of the amazing fruits, veggies, and flowers. The date this competition was held on was tomorrow and the time was 9 A. M. to 9 P. M. She took a picture of the poster with her phone and went home. The next day she went to her garden and couldn't believe her eyes, because one of her tomatoes had grown extremely large. Mavis remembered the competition, so she got ready to go to the competition with her extremely large or over grown tomato. she reach exactly when they started to hand out the awards. Mavis got first place in all the veggie competition which were largest tomato, tallest tomato, tastiest tomato and the best name for a tomato which was “The huge beauty”. She even won the happiest girl award but that is another story.The end

Everyone knows that the elephant has a very long nose. But a long time ago, the elephant's nose was short and fat. Like a shoe in the middle of its face. One day a baby elephant was born. She was curious about everything. She had a question for every animal. She was curious about Giraffe. "Why do you have a long neck?" she asked. She was curious about Rhino. "Why does your horn have a sharp point?" She was curious about Hippo. "Why do you have red eyes?" she asked. And she was VERY curious about Crocodile. "What does Crocodile eat for dinner?" she asked. "Never ask a question like that!" said her mother. Then she walked off, frowning. Quickly Crow flew down to baby elephant. "Follow me to the river. There you will see what Crocodile eats for dinner," squawked Crow. So the baby elephant followed Crow down to the river. She pushed through the reeds and stood on the bank. She looked into the water. Where was Crocodile? "Hello," said a stone near the river bank. "Hello," said Baby Elephant. "Can you tell me what Crocodile eats for dinner?" she asked. "Bend down and I will tell you," said the stone. "Lower, lower," said the stone. So Baby Elephant bent down lower, and lower. Then suddenly, "Snap!" Baby Elephant's nose was caught in Crocodile's jaws. "Crocodile will eat you for dinner!" squawked Crow, and flew away. Baby Elephant sat back on her strong legs and pulled. She pulled, and pulled. But Crocodile did not let go of her nose. Baby Elephant's nose stretched, and stretched, and stretched. Then, "Thud!" she fell on her back. Crocodile sunk back into the water. He was cross about losing his dinner. Baby Elephant looked at her nose. It was stretched very long. She could not see where it ended! Her nose was so long she could pick fruit from high branches. Her nose was so long she could shower her back with water. From that day, all elephants had long and useful trunks.

Once in a sunny day in December, Rahul was playing cricket in the playground in his apartment. Suddenly a portal appeared; two hands came out and pulled Rahul and his best friend into the portal. They felt very nauseous and very anxious, because the portal was swirling like a million merry-go-rounds. When they were surely inside the portal, there appeared a great big hotel which was shining with all its might . When they went inside the hotel; several dwarf came rushing down to them. The dwarf told the surprised children that the dwarf dinosaur in the bizarre island was ascending towards them by the smell and was going to eat them . Rahul and Javed could defeat Draco (the dinosaur) because they were bigger than him; in fact they were ten feet tall for the dwarf, and five feet taller than Draco. They asked the dwarf that can they go home after the challenge, and the dwarf said they will and with an extra prize. Off they went with increasing courage to defeat him. They were not even halfway when a friendly lion appeared. They were afraid at first but when the lion asked them “Do you want to have a ride on my back, there are dangers lurking in the forest, and besides you will reach there faster". So they said they wanted to go to Draco's cave . When they reached the cave, Draco was sleeping. He woke up with a roar. They got ready to fight Draco. Suddenly a big rock came falling down just above Javed, before Rahul could do anything, Draco stopped the stone with his horns what an unexpected surprise! Draco was kind and loving and wanted to make friendship with the dwarf So they went back to the hotel riding on Draco's back. The dwarf were so afraid that they ran and hid inside the big, old bed. Rahul & Javed told the dwarf that Draco wanted to be friends with him. The dwarf took trust in them and kept Draco with them. Rahul and Javed went out of the portal after the goodbyes and they took a trophy with HONOR MEDAL inscribed on it.

There was a time when all the animals lived together as friends.One day they decided to have a meeting to elect a king. Rooster wanted to be king. So he lied to the other animals.He told them, "The red comb on my head is fire! Don't touch the comb on my head!" The other animals believed Rooster. They decided to elect Rooster as their king.The animals hoped that Rooster's fire would help them in cold weather. Then came a day when it rained. And rained. And rained. It was cold. Everything was wet and cold. "Where can we get fire to warm our bodies?"Rabbit asked the other animals. "We can get fire from the comb on Rooster's head," replied Monkey."Rooster is our king because he has fire on his head," said Monkey. The animals agreed with Monkey. They sent Fox to collect fire from king Rooster. Fox found Rooster in a deep sleep. So he decided to take fire without asking Rooster. Fox collected some dry grass. He put the grass next to the comb on Rooster's head. Nothing happened. The grass did not catch fire. "Wake up king Rooster!" yelled Fox. "We need fire now." But Rooster could not give fire to Fox. Fox was angry. He went back to the other animals. He told them the truth about the comb on Rooster's head.From that day, no one was afraid of Rooster.And foxes eat roosters and their families.

Little Anu had a concentration problem. Whenever she tried to concentrate, something distracted her. So she was not able to study properly and started getting less marks in school. One day when her teacher was announcing an English test for the next day, Anu was distracted as usual and failed to listen. Next day in the test, half her answers were wrong and she got very poor marks. The teacher was very angry with Anu and promptly wrote a note in her diary for her parents to sign. Anu was terrified how her parents would react to not only her poor marks in English, but to the note in her diary. Thinking about the evening ahead depressed her. She knew mamma and pappa would be upset with her. Anu reached home and was about to knock when she saw her mother returning from office. “How was your day?” she asked, giving Anu a hug. Little yo came running and gave her a tight hug and said “Hi didi! I missed you.” Anu's exhaustion melted away and she felt happy that she had a loving family with her. Anu knew at the end of the day, a loving family should find everything forgivable and her parents will do the same. She made a resolution that from now on, she will concentrate and pay attention in class. Listen carefully to her teacher and get good marks. As Anu expected her parents forgave her and told her to forget the present situation and strive instead to get good marks next time The day ended with the four of them having a good time. Being a family means you are a part of something very wonderful. It means you will love and be loved for the rest of your life.

Chottu is 3 feet tall. His legs look like broomsticks. He wears green-rimmed spectacles, cracks jokes and makes everyone laugh. One day he was selected as the goalkeeper of the Manchester United junior team. He was the best in goalkeeping so he was certain to be a part of the team. He caught the ball, pounced on it and slammed it on the ground. The opposite team striker groaned, “How did I miss it?” Chottu was over the moon! When Chottu went home, he saw his mother making rotis in the kitchen. His father was coming back home from office. His grandmother was knitting on the chair. . “Listen, everyone, come here! Come here!” he shouted excitedly. “What happened?” “Why are you shouting?” his mother asked angrily. "I won the football game!” he said excitedly.“I don't believe it!” his grandmother replied delightedly.“That's excellent!” replied his father.“That's brilliant!” smiled his mother. His father gave him a tight hug. Chottu's father promised to buy him a remote control helicopter as a present for winning the football match. Chottu felt joyful. When Chottu returned to school the next day, his friends started teasing him, “Chottu – the chotta boy,” Charlie taunted. The football team he played against him were standing in the corridor and gossiping about Chottu. Chottu got very annoyed. He attacked Charlie Tombstone style. He watched WWE and he was a fan of Undertaker and Kane. Charlie's neck twisted and was thrown back on the ground. Charlie's head started throbbing in pain. Seeing him on the ground, he fled. Chottu was very depressed. He went home and asked his mother, “Why can't you give me Complan every day?”“It's very expensive,” she replied.“I want to increase my height, please give me Complan!” he pleaded. Chottu felt blue.“Okay, we will buy Complan, but on one condition.” “I will do anything!”“I should not hear any complains about you from school.” Chottu agreed. He started skipping every day to become tall. Gradually, Chottu‘s height increased. Children at school gasped. They couldn't believe how tall he had grown. So everyone finally stopped teasing Chottu.

Once upon a time there was a king who had a close friend that he grew with. The friend had a habit to face each situation that happened in his life (positive or negative) saying, “Everything happens for the good”.One day, the king and his friend left for hunting. Bows & Arrows were the most famous weapons during that time and were used for hunting and fighting. While preparing the weapons for the king, the friend, made some mistake and the king shot and it took his thumb away. The king answered, "No, this is not good", and he promptly commanded the soldiers who arrested his friend and put him in the prison.More than a year passed by, the king was hunting in a region where, cannibals appeared, captured the king and took him to their village. When they were about to tie up his hands, they noticed that the king did not have a thumb. As they were superstitious, they disliked people who had a part of their body missing. Thus, after setting the king free, they banished him from the village. The King realized he had escaped from the cannibals because of his friend and when he arrived at the palace, he paid a visit to the prison to speak with his friend. "You were right", said the king. "It was good that I lost my thumb".The King told his friend everything that happened to him. "I am sorry that I have ordered you to prison for such a long period. It was a great mistake". "No", the friend said, "That was the good decision.” What do you mean by that? How it can be good decision? I ordered my best friend to prison?" The friend answered; if I was not in the prison certainly I would be with you in the hunt". Then you know what would have happened with me?

Once upon a time, there lived aking called Opale with his beautifulqueen.They had only one beautifuldaughter. One day, a king looked at hisprincess and said to his wife, "Ithink our daughter is grown up now,we must find her a handsome manfrom the village." "Who will marry my beautifulprincess?, a king asked himself.He thought of a test for all men whowill come expecting to marry hisdaughter."I am going to cook a pot fullof water and any man who will drinkthis hot water will marry my lovelydaughter." said the king. The following day the king put up an announcementinviting all unmarried men in the village.Announcement!!! Announcement!!!To all young and unmarried men in the village,a kingwants to find a handsome man for his beautifuldaughter.Come, Come, Come all. On hearing the announcement,all young men werevery excited and every body got set for the day. One of the young men told hisfather,I have had that the king hasinvited all young men to hispalace,he wants to choose ahusband for his daughter.Father,"I must go and stand beforethe king,am very sure I will comeback with the princess." As usual,it was a proposed day,aqueue of young and smartlydressed men was seen movingtowards the palace.Every body was very happy. "You are all most welcome"said theking.Then the king began to address thecrowd of young men,If any onedrinks a pot of hot water all atonce,he will be able to my lovelyprincess with him. They were very many in that theinterview could not be completewithin a day.Most men tried their level best butthey could not go with the princess. On the following day,there camemr. Hare who had heard theannouncement late.He was welcomed and given a seat. The king told him,to take mydaughter,one has got to drink a potof hot water all at once.That is nothing to me,my lord,saidmr Hare. Mr. Hare was a very wise and trickyman,he started a very interestingstory that took up the king'sattention while the water wascooling. The chiefs and the king were veryhappy saying, "This is the man wewanted."In a few minutes,the hot water hadcooled and mr. Hare drank it all atonce. The king and his chiefs were verysurprised to see mr. Hare drinkingthe hot water. Finally mr. Hare took the beautifulprincess with him and he was veryhappy but the king remained verysad because his daughter had gonewith an animal.

"Mom," calls Lebo."Come and look. These clothes are all too small for me!""Let me see," says Mom. "Look at my skirt. It's too small," says Lebo."Yes, it is," says Mom."Nomsa can have your skirt." "Look at my jeans. They're too small," says Lebo."Yes, they are," says Mom."Nomsa can have your jeans." "Look at my T-shirt. It's too small," says Lebo."Yes, it is," says Mom."Nomsa can have your T-shirt." "Look at my jersey. It's too small," says Lebo."Yes, it is," says Mom."Nomsa can have your jersey." "Look at my raincoat. It's too small," says Lebo."Yes, it is," says Mom."Nomsa can have your raincoat." "Look at my socks. They're too small," says Lebo."Yes, they are," says Mom."Nomsa can have your socks." "Look at my takkies. They're too small," says Lebo."Yes, they are," says Mom."Nomsa can have your takkies." "Now you have lots of clothes," says Lebo."Oh no I don't," says Nomsa,"These clothes are all too big for me!"

On a usual sunny day, Balloo the Rabbit came to meet his friend, Appu the elephant. As always, the two friends were quite excited to meet one another. Appu and Ballu discussed their days, but Ballu had an interesting experience the day before that he wanted to share! It was this beautiful kite that he saw, stuck on a tree but then all there for the taking. It would only require Ballu to climb the tree and untangle the kite. But then a bird had untangled the kite and off it went with the wind... Ballu noticed that all the other animals were excited to see the kite too and wanted to get hold of it too, which brought about an awful lot of panic! All the animals wanted this beautiful kite to play with. But after much struggle, Ballu managed to correctly guess where the kite would fall - within arms reach, and then... Ballu fell down with the kite, damaging it and almost injuring himself! Ballu looked at his beautiful kite that now lay damaged and probably would never fly again. He felt terrible about it! But Ballu's mother came out rushing - telling Ballu not to worry! She would fix Ballus kite for him so that he can play with it. Appu listened keenly! He was very happy that his friend was not hurt and that Ballu's mother came to help him. Then Ballu told Appu that he wanted to gift the beautiful kite to him as he knew that Appu had never seen a kite. Appu, though, could not contain his excitement and suddenly felt the need to run around. It was the last time Ballu had seen Appu...

There was a GIANT dragon DRIGO. He wanted to fly in the whole solar system.... So he went on a cliff, took the stance and whoosh!!! he was off to explore..... Drigo was very excited to see all the planets around him so closely. He saw a silver planet (which is moon) besides the blue and green planet (of course earth)."Oh!!! what a round bulgy planet with a silver paint." he exclaimed.He landed there with a big thud.While he started staring at planet, a Spacecraft came and landed over the planet and stared at Drigo. Some red colored creatures came out of it.... Drigo picked it up and thought it would be tasty and he mixed the chillies with the rice cake and ate.............he was soooo hungry....But the chillies were actually aliens from outer space. See, what is happening inside stomach when he ate the rice cakes with the alien chillies..... The chillies went in his mouth and it got so frightened that they used their power and made red pepper chilly....... Drigo started spiting fire everywhere.(hmmm...now I know why dragons spit fires)..... He cried" I waaant waaaterrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr!!!!!".....He thought of the green and blue painted planet...... Drigo found water on planet, he drank half of the water of pond...... He suddenly heard some noise.....there was another dragon eating mangoes... Drigo was so happy as he thought that he has discovered life on the planet......he went back in space searching for HIS planet(he did not know that it was his planet!!!).But he lost in space.... Now his whole life is spent in search of HIS planet.........

It was a very hot Saturday afternoon in December. "Bontle and Mpho and Lerato, go out and play!" Mme said to us. "I don't want you under my feet." We ran out of the house. "Let's go to the river," Lerato said. "It's cooler there." "But Mme told us not to swim in the river," said Bontle. "We won't swim," answered Lerato. "We'll just play in the shade next to the water." But playing libeke is hot work, even when you're under the trees next to the river. First we took off our shoes. But we were still hot. Then we took off our shirts and skirts. But we were still hot. We put our feet in the river to cool off. Then we splashed each other. Soon we were soaked with water. "Oh come on! Let's swim," said Mpho. "Mme will never know." We swam and swam and forgot about the time. The sun started to go down, and the day began to cool. Where were our clothes? We looked under the trees. We looked on the bushes. We looked everywhere. There were some cows near the river, enjoying the sweet grass. Bontle looked up, "Look at that cow! What's in her mouth?" "She's eating a red flower," said Lerato. "It's not a red flower," shouted Mpho. "It's your shirt!" We looked at another cow who was chewing something blue. "That's my skirt!" shouted Bontle. We went home in our panties, shivering. But not only because it was cool. "It was the cows," we cried. "The cows ate our clothes." But did Mme believe us? Soon our bottoms were very warm. And it wasn't from the sun.

Once there was a highly skilled and successful carpenter who wanted to retire as he had grown old. He told his employer of his plans to leave the house building business and live a more leisurely life with his family. The employer was sorry to see his good worker retire and asked if he could build just one more house as a personal favor. The carpenter agreed to do just this one last job for the sake of his employer. As he was in the mood of retiring, the carpenter did not have much interest in his work. He resorted to poor workmanship, and used inferior materials. So the end result was not as good as his previous ones. When the job was done, the carpenter called his employer and showed him the house. The employer handed over some papers and the front door key to the carpenter and said "This is your house, my gift to you."The carpenter was in a shock! If he had only known that he was building his own house, he would have made it better than any other house that he ever built!When you give something your twenty percent, you finish a chore. When you give it your fifty percent, you finish a task. But when you give it your hundred percent, you do a good job. Any job well done is a one-time investment which will reap rewards for the rest of your life.

Chhoti used to love being outdoors. Everyday she would walk through the fields talking and singing to the crops and birds. One day she entered the forest. In the forest she could hear a lot of birds chirping and also some animal sounds. As Chhoti walked through the forest, she saw a huge footprint on the ground. It was so big that both her feet could fit into the print and there was still some extra space. For a brief moment she got really scared! She wondered which animal could be so big and huge. She started thinking about dark and scary things. Then all of a sudden, in the distance, Chhoti saw Bade- the elephant. He was really big. This footprint was surely his. Bade walked up to Chhoti and nudged her with his trunk to say Hello. Chhoti had never seen such kind eyes before Bade lifted Chhoti on to his back and they went for a long walk through the forest. From that day onwards each day Chhoti would sit on Bade's back and they would discover the forest together.

Varun is going on his summer holidays to Hubli. Varun likes to travel. Varun likes to eat icecreams. But what he loves the most is reading. And what he reads he dreams, and what he dreams becomes true. Suddenly he hears a loud roar. He peeps out of the window and yelps! He sees a dragon racing with his car. The dragon puffs out big grey clouds of smoke. As time passes Varun dozes off to sleep. He is woken up by a flash of light on his face. He opens his eyes and is astonished! It is dark and all that he sees is a tall dragon spitting fire on the ships in the sea. Continuing his journey, Varun enjoyed the sight of the rising sun. Suddenly he noticed a signboard pointing to Dragon-bridge. As the car continued its ride Varun suddenly found himself zooming over a dragon shaped bridge. As Varun was dreaming of a dragon in the form of a train, a lighthouse and a bridge. Now, what do you think, he heard? The flapping of huge wings and a big roar. He was out of his dream, seeing the real red eyes of a green huge dragon spitting fire.The real one!

Once upon a time there was afemale giant.As she was walking near the lakeone day, she found three little girls.She asked them, "Who among youis loved by both parents?" One of the girls said, "My motherloves me most."Another said, "My father loves memost."But the third one said, "I am lovedby both parents." The giant then asked the girl lovedby both parents to help her put aload of firewood on her back.So the girl followed the giant. After going for some distance, thegirl asked the giant, "Where is yourfirewood?"The giant replied, "It is near thosetrees over there!" When they reached the trees, thegirl asked again, "Where is yourfirewood?"The giant answered, "Not far now!" They walked on and met a man.He asked the giant, "What is thename of your child?"The giant replied, "She is called the'talking bag'." The girl burst out singing:"I am not called the talking bag.My name is Kaamungei!Oh! My mother, whom I love,Oh! My father, whom I love,Oh! My calabash, which I use todrink milk!" When the man heard what the girlsang, he rescued her and took herback to her parents.The story ends there!

On a red Planet far far awayOur little blue Alien lost his wayWith four legs and three little fingers in his handAll he was left with, was a Magic Wand And with his magic wand, however hard he triedTo make his new red planet full of colors green, blue or even whiteAll that he could do was create only stars, although brightBut with flowers and trees in his mind, he felt nothing was going right Alone and exhausted, he became so sadTo find a way out, he scratched his headSuddenly, there crossed our Astronaut in his speedy JetAnd he saw our little blue Alien sitting alone in a planet so red And the astronaut stopped byTo say a little "Hi"To our little blue AlienWho was excited to finally see a companion Our little blue alien told the AstronautThat how he is stuck alone and lost"Please take me alongTo the place you belongI hear the Earth is a colorful placeWhere there are trees and grass and flowers to embrace" The Astronaut happily agreed to take our Little Blue Alien to Earth, the beautiful planetAnd excited, together they boarded the speedy JetThrough the stars and the moon and the cloudHustled back the Jet to the Earth making sounds so loud Our little blue Alien smiled and danced seeing the colorful sightThe flowers, the trees everything so beautiful and brightAnd he had also made a wonderful friendHappy he was, that everything was good in the end.

Once upon a time, there was aspider called Anansi.He was too lazy to cook his ownfood. Instead, he used to visit hisfriends and eat the delicious foodthey had cooked. One day, he was walking pastRabbit's house when he smelledsomething cooking."Greens!" he said excitedly."They're not quite ready yet," saidRabbit. "You can help me with thewashing up in the mean time.""Sorry, I have things to do. I'll comeback later," said Anansi. "How will I call you when they'reready?" asked Rabbit.Anansi thought for a minute."I'll spin a web," he said, "and tieone end around my leg and one endto your pot. When the greens areready, pull on the web string and I'llcome right away."So Anansi tied the web to the pot,and walked on. A short while later he saw Monkeyand his wife, cooking some beans ina large pot."Come and join us!" they said. "Thebeans are nearly ready.""Sorry, I have things to do," saidAnansi before they could ask him tohelp."But let me tie one end of this webaround my leg and one end to yourpot. When the beans are ready, pullon the web string, and I'll come." He walked on until he smelledsweet potatoes."Anansi," called his friend Warthog."My pot is full of sweet potatoesand honey! Come and share myfood with me. Here's a fork for youto help me stir.""I'll come back later," said Anansiquickly. "But let me tie one end ofthis web around my leg and oneend to your pot. When the sweetpotatoes are ready, pull on the webstring, and I'll come." By the time Anansi arrived at theriver, each of his eight legs was tiedto a different pot of delicious food.Just then, Anansi felt a tug on oneof his legs."Rabbit's food is ready!" he said,licking his lips. He felt a second tug.And a third.And a fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh,eighth...Everyone was pulling on the webstrings at the same time!"Stop! Stop!" he cried in pain, ashis legs were stretched thinner andthinner.But no one could hear him. Finally, the web strings could holdno longer. They snapped one byone.Anansi rolled into the river tosoothe his painful legs. But his legswould not return to their normalshape.And he was too embarrassed to goto any of his friends and share theirfood that day.

Dark clouds gathered over the hills as Akira was leaving home on a windy day."Don't forget to get our umbrella from Gopu's shop. It looks like it's going to rain," said Akira's father. But just as Akira and Zero - her pet cat - started to walk towards the rusty old bridge, it began to rain... ... FISH!An endless stream of fish was falling from the sky.Thin fish, fat fish, blue fish, golden fish, upside down fish, slanting fish - oh, hundreds and hundreds of falling fish!But Akira couldn't be late. So they ran and ran, in the fish rain. Across Kabir's fields they sprang, with the wind howling in their ears and a strong fishy smell tickling their noses.But they couldn't be late. So they ran and ran, in the fish rain... Until Akira noticed that Zero was no longer with her. But it wasn't hard to find him."Stay with me, Zero. You know I can't be late today," she said.So they ran and ran, in the fish rain. Soon they reached the market street. People were holding their baskets high to catch as many falling fish as possible. "Fish for sale! Fresh, fresh fish for sale!" The market was already filled with their loud, excited cries, and it made Akira and Zero feel just a little hungry.But they couldn't be late. So they ran and ran, in the fish rain... Until, all of a sudden, fish stopped falling from the sky.Slowly, the clouds parted, and there it was - a grand, smiling rainbow.Akira jumped with joy and reached out to the sky.They had reached school just in time. And finally, no more running in the fish rain!

As Kian by dandelion flew, the dark clouds in the sky grew. Sheltering under a mushroom top, Kian watched the rain go plop! plop! plop!Plopity plop appeared a puddle, from past experience, Kian found himself wanting a cuddle...So he joined the glow worms in a warm loving huddle.“To stay warm and dry, if into that house you go, you will meet my friend, the lizard!” said the worms that glow. As Kian jumped onto the window sill, he saw the lizard sitting very still.A little girl entered the room, saw the lizard, screaming “AAArrgghh!!”, arms waving went zoom! “What, dear lizard, was that?!” asked Kian.“Aw! That's just her way of saying hello! She is a sweet little dope!I eat the flies, mosquitoes and other insects that bite, just so she can sleep well at night!!” replied the lizard.Watching the lizard hunt and gobble down prey was interesting; however Kian really could not stay. “Aaargh!!” shouted Kian, arms waving. “What was that?!” asked the puzzled glow worms.“Well It would seem wherever I go, I learn a new way of saying hello!!”“Dear Fairy, while I am sure saying hello like that is fun, I must warn you that it might make some people run!”After some thought, Kian replied, “Oh, of course you are right, it is just not polite to give others a fright!”

It was the hottest day of that summer, Mintoo was helping his granny to sell cabbages in the weekly market. Everyone was shouting loud to lure customers to their vegetable stalls.In that hustle bustle the voice came, "Baaai... baaaii..."Mintoo heard something which immediately drawn his attention. Mintoo searched for the source of that voice. In the middle of that crowded market, he was amazed to see a very fat goat baaing, scared and exhausted.Mintoo went near the goat and kept his hand on her head to pacify her. The goat stopped baaing and followed him to their stall in the market. Mintoo and Granny were selling cabbages at the market. They gave some left over cabbages to the goat.That evening they took the goat to their home in the near by village. Mintoo named the goat as 'Kardi' which means light gray. When they reached home granny told Mintoo to take good care of Kardi as she is Pregnant.Mintoo was soo happy to know about arrival of cute little friends so he took good care of Kardi, fed her soft grass and cabbages everyday. Few days later, Kardi gave birth to a tiny goat baby. Mintoo helped her granny to clean the baby. He was surprise to see the baby could immediately stand and started walking after birth! Mintoo and the baby goat baaed and jumped with joy!

A woman carrying her baby went into the forest to pick fruit. In the forest she found a tree with ripe fruit. She put down her sleeping baby and climbed the tree. An erotot from another community came by and saw the baby.Surprised, he asked himself, "Where is the mother of the baby?" As he bent down, the sound of the chains on his neck woke the baby. He let the baby play with his chains. The baby laughed as he played. The woman looked down to see why the baby was laughing. She saw a strange man close to her baby. She was so afraid that she dropped her bag full of fruit. The erotot looked up and said, "Don't be afraid. I'm only playing with your beautiful baby." So the woman came down from the tree. The erotot took off one of his chains. He gave it to the baby, and said, "Here is a gift for you." Then he said to the woman, "Take your baby, take your bag, and go home. Tell your husband to move to a more peaceful village. Your baby has given me peace." _Note: In the language Ng'aturkana, 'erotot' is the word used to to describe a man who goes ahead to survey an area before before an attack takes place. It is similar to the English word 'scout'._

Bounce.. Bounce!Anny and Jack went on the trampoline. Suddenly, Jack got an idea! He said to Anny that why don't we go to space!They both went to their house and asked their mother if they can go to space. But their mother said you are too young to go to space. They thought that was not fair.So they made their own toy rocket and played. As they grew up, they became smarter and smarter.Then they again asked their mother if we could go to space. But still their mother said no. Grades passed and they went to college.And at last, they went to office and they got a job.... which made them go to space!! When they were going in space, they saw the full earth and took pictures.When they reached Mars, they saw a satellite vehicle and drove it, They went all around Mars and took one full week to go around Mars fully. They took many pictures.And then they came on news and everybody was surprised to see that.. even their parents.When they returned back to earth everybody praised them and they got 2 crore for doing all this! All the pictures they took was attached in the museum. And everybody liked it.And of course they would quarrel about being a scientist back again!

One day, 'M'e Maneo planted apumpkin seed. It grew into a verybig pumpkin. It blocked her gardenpath. 'M'e Maneo wanted to move thepumpkin. She went to herneighbour. "'M'e Mapalesa,' shesaid, "please help me to move mypumpkin. It is blocking my path."The two ladies pushed and pushed,but that pumpkin did not move. They went to 'M'e Masello. "Pleasehelp us move 'M'e Maneo'spumpkin!" they asked. 'M'e Masellocame to help them. The three ladiespushed and pushed that pumpkin,but still it did not move. "I don'tknow what to do," said 'M'e Maneo. Just then a little worm came into'M'e Maneo's garden. It was hungry.It nibbled the big pumpkin. "Stop,"said the pumpkin. But the littleworm nibbled again. "Stop! You are tickling me," said thepumpkin. "I don't like it." And thepumpkin rolled away down the hill. The pumpkin stopped in a field atthe bottom of the hill. Twoshepherds found it. "What shall wedo with this pumpkin?" they asked."Let's eat it," they said, "it looksdelicious." They took a big stone and tried tobreak open the pumpkin. "No!" cried the pumpkin. Theshepherds jumped back. Thepumpkin began to open. Out of the pumpkin came a moloi.She had one arm, one eye and oneleg. She looked terrible. "Don'tdisturb me," said the moloi in a bigvoice, "I am the pumpkin chief."The pumpkin closed again. The shepherds were veryfrightened. They ran home to telltheir parents. "Oh! We are solucky!" said their parents. "Don'tyou know about the pumpkinmoloi?" "It is a very specialpumpkin," said the shepherds'parents. "You must leave it alone.""Next summer the pumpkin will open again and the moloi willscatter pumpkin seeds all over our villages. We will have many,many pumpkins to eat," said the shepherd's parents. And so it happened that the nextsummer, 'M'e Maneo's pumpkinburst open. It was full of many,many seeds. Out came the pumpkin moloi. Withher one leg she climbed out of thepumpkin. With her one eye shelooked across all the villages. Withher one arm she threw all thoseseeds across the valley. The seeds grew into beautiful bigpumpkins in all the gardens in thevalley. That winter everyone in thevillages had lots of pumpkins to eat.They went to 'M'e Maneo. "Thankyou, 'M'e Maneo!" they cried.

Wondering what to do with wordless stories?Wordless stories are wonderful because they contain infinite possibilities. Here are a few ideas for engaging with children using visual stories:- Explore the story in a leisurely manner. Draw attention to the details - the expressions of the characters, setting, colours, etc. The idea is for each child to build her own story. If the story is being shown to a group of children, you could ask each of them to contribute a sentence or two for each illustration. Take joy in exploring each illustration and build the story as you go along.- Use themes explored in the story to start a discussion. For instance, in this story, you could ask children about what they do for their birthday, or even how they help out at home.- Encourage children to create 2-3 different stories using the same set of visuals. This will help push their imagination.

The dandelion landed on a grassy river bank.For such a truly wonderful sight,Kian, the Indigo Fairy,wondered who he could thank!! As Kian went to give the baby buffalo a cuddle, he found himself in a puddle.Off went the calf with the teeth, into the water, his mother to meet!Dear Fairy, if in this herd, you want to make a friend,sitting silently, peace and love out you send... said the Buffalo herder. As Kian's meditation went deep, out of the water, the buffaloes started to creep.The breath moves in...the breath moves out...The dust begins to settle down, clarity of mind can be found.With the mind clear, Kian begins to feel. Like an onion, the layers begin to peel...Peace arises...Love starts to flow...Kian is enveloped by a special glow... Kian decided to lie down,when he woke up this is what he found.Once again he was in a puddle,but this time it was becausethe wet buffaloes wanted a cuddle! The new friends started to play...Kian showed the buffaloes how to play ring a ring of roses... The Buffaloes showed Kian their favourite game of blowing bubbles... When they got tired, they played a game they had all enjoyed;Sitting silently together, they generated a loving vibe! Adventure calls “Whee whee whee”Dandelion in hand, Kian climbs up a tree.Kian thought while waiting for a gust of wind...“Today I learnt that sometimes in life being polite,means simply not doing anything that gives others a fright.”

For ages, Olokwango hill stood smiling at the middleof Kwere plains. From the two dimples on its sidecame springs which converged downhill to form ariver. River Temu meandered silently across theKwere plains. Its waters were a gift to the sheep andgoats of the area as well as the deer that dwelt in theplains. Things were all well until Matata became headman.He ordered a path to be cleared from the top of thehill to the foot so that he could climb uphill easilyand roll gently down to the foot. Olokwango hill wasangry with the damage to his beard, but he waspatient. During the weekend, Matata's children and theirfriends would climb uphill to play.They would run all over the place, breaking twigsand branches, lighting fires for their games, whichthey would later leave burning. Over time, Olokwango lost patience. The dimplesbecame smaller and smaller as his face turned intougly wrinkles.At last the springs were no more. The deer in theplains migrated because there was no more the tallgreen grass to play in. The sheep and goats grewthinner and thinner.Everyone felt the sadness of Olokwango hill. The people of Kwere realized that something neededto be done.They joined hands and overthrew Matata theheadman.In his place they appointed Baraka who immediatelyordered everyone to plant a flower to honourOlokwango. Baraka and his people held ceremoniesand brought gifts of pine, cedar, and cypress forOlokwango. No one walked on the hill any longer, and the grasshad a chance to grow tall once again.Gradually the smile on the face of Olokwango hillgrew broader and the dimples deeper. Out of thedimples the springs ran again. River Temu wasrejuvenated. The plains became greener than everbefore. The deer galloped happily once more acrossthe grass. "Long live Baraka, long live Baraka," the people ofKwere sang."Long live, Olokwango," said Baraka and his people."May our children and children's children foreverrespect you."

Once there was a frog named Fonky. Fonky jumped into a pond to meet his friends. He had many fish friends. They played catch and cook. Then suddenly Tutu, the turtle came. They were all happily surprised. Fonky jumped on Tutu's back, Marina jumped over Fonky in joy. Gippy asked Tutu, "Where were you all this while? We were waiting for you.. Come and join us!" Tutu joined them to play. They suddenly heard a loud sound! The little fish got scared, but Tutu was brave and he said," Let's go and see what happened." They saw a big yellow box sitting in the water. Everyone started poking it. Suddenly there was music coming from it." Oh! It is a Radio!", said Fonky. Goldie, the goldfish, came to meet Fonky and the friends. Fonky told her about the new Radio. Goldie was very excited, she turned up the volume, "BOOM! BOOM! BOOM!" and they all had a fishy party! Everyone danced a lot and had lots of fun! Fonky, Tutu and Goldie were then tired. Fonky said, "I must go back home, my mother is waiting for me". Tutu said, "Good bye! Let's do this again tomorrow." And they all went home.

Once upon a time, there was asmall boy named Musau who livedwith his father Syonzola. Syonzola stayed out drinking untilvery late every night and Musauhardly ever saw him. When Musau's father camehome, he would scream,"Villagers, villagers! Comeand rescue me! I am being attackedby a hyena." On hearing Syonzola'sscreams, the villagers would comewith their arrows and spears andpangas, to rescue him.But they would find that he wasdrunk and just teasing them. Musau's father continueddrinking and shouting for help lateat night. The villagers continuedgoing with arrows and spears andpangas to rescue him. But eachtime it was the same story. Hewould only be teasing them. Every time Musau's fatherreturned home late, Musau wouldbe woken by the screams for help.Musau knew his father'svoice very well.He would listen as Syonzola movedin the dark until he reached thedoor of their house. One night, Syonzola came homedrunk as usual. But this time, ahyena hid near the house.When Syonzola screamed, thehyena fiercely attacked him. Syonzola screamed so loudly.But the villagers said, "We aretired of Syonzola'stricks."They turned over in their beds andwent back to sleep. As usual, Syonzola's screamswoke up his son Musau.Musau listened for hisfather's steps as he alwaysdid.But his father did not seem to movecloser to the house. Musau sat upand listened more keenly. "My father is really indanger," Musau said."This time he is notteasing." Musau jumped up from his bed.He grabbed a smoldering log fromthe fire and rushed out of the hut. "Father, father," hecalled.In the moonlight, Musau sawSyonzola struggling with an animal.He raised the burning log.When the hyena saw the fiery log,he ran away. After that, Syonzola never went outagain to drink.Instead, he spent his days tellinginteresting stories to the schoolchildren.

Once upon a time there was a crocodile named Gabbar. Gabbar was scared of swimming. So he could not catch the fishes in the water. Gabbar used to hide behind the tall grass and look longingly at the fishes with his mouth watering to eat them. He was not a little crocodile any more, but still his Aai used to get fish from the lake and feed him everyday but only when nobody else was looking. One day Gabbar was very hungry and Gabbar started crying. His mother could not see him cry, so she quickly brought a fish for him. Seeing this Beduk and Baabo the frogs started laughing "drav drav", Sapu the snake started laughing "Hisssssss Hissssss", Titli and Fullpakhru the butterflies started laughing loudly. "Gabbar is a baby, Gabbar is a baby" they all made fun of him. Gabbar felt ashamed and he started crying. Gabbar was a very sad crocodile that day. All the other animals saw sad Gabbar and felt sorry for him. Seeing Gabbar sad his best friend Gogalguy the snail felt very bad and he decided to help Gabbar. Gogalguy got an idea. He shared his plans with the other animals. Titli the butterfly came and told Gabbar that Gogalguy is drowning. Hearing about his friend Gogalguy drowning Gabbar jumped in the water and started swimming. He forgot all about his fear of swimming in the water. He only wanted to save his friend Gogalguy. He went searching for his friend, swimming from one end of the lake to the other end but he could not find Gogalguy anwhere. Gabbar started crying. Titli flew and kissed Gabbar on his forehead and told him " Gabbar, Gogalguy is safe and he is on land. All this was a part of plan. Gabbar see you are swimming now, You are a Hero". All the animals and Gabbars Aai were very happy seeing Gabbar swim. Ever since Gabbar is a happy crocodile.

Khayanga lived with her parentshappily until they died when shewas ten years old. Khayanga was taken in by Rosa, adistant relative.Rosa was kind to Khayanga, but shewas old, frail and poor. Khayanga often visited her parents'graves to tell them of her misery. One day when she visited, shereceived a gift. It was a very specialGourd which appeared from herparents' graves. The Gourd sang a beautiful andsoothing song. Khayangarecognised the voice as that of herlate mother.It went like this...Khayanga, ee, Khayanga!Our child the loved one!You're not alone, loved one!Have this gourd, loved one!Carry it everywhere you go, loved one!Let it console you loved one! Khayanga carried her special Gourdeverywhere.With her Gourd, Khayanga felt herparents' presence and protection. One day, something bad happenedto her special Gourd. It broke whenshe was fetching water in the river.Khayanga's heart broke as well. Khayanga held the pieces of thebroken Gourd in her small handsand sang:Father and Mother,See the gourd is broken.The gourd you gave me.What do I do, Mother and Father?Be kind and show me a sign...That you are still with me. Khayanga heard her mother's voicesaying to her:"Our child, pick up the pieces thatare left.Fetch water with them and washyour feet.When you finish washing, close youreyes."Khayanga obeyed and suddenly,the broken Gourd became wholeonce again. Khayanga continued to carry herGourd everywhere she went.Wherever she passed, peoplewhispered to each other, "Whattype of gourd is this?"With her special Gourd, Khayangareceived everything she needed. With the special Gourd, Khayangaknew that her parents werewatching over her.Nothing bad could happen to her.

A story is told of a man who lived in a far away village withhis son. His name was Syonzola and he was a verymischievous man. People in the village didn't like him verymuch because he liked to lie a lot. At night, Syonzola would wait until everyone was asleep andhe would stand outside and start shouting, "HELP, HELP, I'MBEING ATTACKED. PLEASE SOMEONE HELP ME." The people would come running to help him with spears intheir hands."Hahahahahaha" Syonzola would laugh until hisstomach was sore when he saw them. "Are you ok?""Where is the animal that wasattacking you?" People would shout"It went that way, please help,"Syonzola would say to them andpoint at the darkness behind thetrees.After they had searched the wholevillage and found no viciousanimal, they would tell him to stophis lies and go to sleep. One night his son heard him screaming and shouting for helpagain. His son never understood why his dad liked to prankpeople. But on this night his son didn't hear people openingtheir doors and running to help, he only heard his father The other villagers were not in the mood to wake up becausethey knew Syonzola was up to his old tricks again. So theydecided to sleep and wait for him to stop his loud screams. "Help, Help me please," his son waited and waited. But thistime he could sense that something was terribly wrongbecause now he was hearing something else that soundedscary and his father's cries were much louder than normal. So the boy ran out and saw that the vicious animal wasattacking his father. And he was brave and weaved his firestick at the animal and the animal ran away from the fire. The animal ran very fast into thedarkness. Syonzola was so proud tosee how brave his son was.He was very grateful to his son forsaving him from the vicious animalthat night. From that day Syonzola never told a lie again and wasforever grateful to his son for saving his life. Instead ofscreaming "Help Help" he now told everyone in the villageabout his brave son.

A monkey lived in a bigtree on the bank of ariver. In the middle ofthe river there was asmall island. Lots offruit trees grew on thatisland. The monkey wanted togo and eat the fruit. Hesaw a big rock half wayacross the river and hethought he could jumponto the rock, and thenonto the island. He jumped into the airand landed on the rock.He jumped again andreached the island. Heenjoyed eating the fruitand then went backhome. He did thisseveral times. But a crocodile lived inthe river with his wife!The wife said, "Dearhusband, you should goand lie on the rock. Thecolour of your skinmatches the colour ofthe rock." A few days later, thecrocodile saw themonkey coming ontothe island. He quietlyclimbed over the rockand carefully lay downon it and kept his faceunderwater. The monkey finishedeating and was ready togo back. But the rocklooked higher thanusual, so he spoke tothe rock, "Dear rock,you seem to havegrown. Are you allright?" The crocodile was a fooland thought the rockmust be a talking rock.So he answered themonkey and said, "Ilook bigger because abig crocodile is lying onme". The monkey said, "Dearcrocodile, I know youwant to eat me. I amvery old and you canhave my body. But Imust say goodbye tomy children in that bigtree." So the crocodilegave him a ride on hisback! As soon as they werethere, the monkeyclimbed the tree andsaid, "Thank you for theride, my dear friend.Goodbye, now you cango home!" But thecrocodile said, "But youpromised...." The monkey laughedand said, "What a foolyou were to believeme!" and disappearedbehind the branches ofthe tree. The crocodilenever did catch thatclever monkey!

This is a Manyatta.It is my home.My home is in TurkanaCounty. This is a camel.In Turkana Countypeople keep manydifferent animals.But the camel is veryimportant. These are my teachers.I like going to school.My school is calledLolupe Primary School.I like my Art teachervery much. This is a ship.Ships are big.They are used totransport people andgoods on water.If I go to Mombasa, Ican see a ship. This is a bed.I like the bed that myfather made for me.I share it with myyounger brother.It is comfortable. This is a cock.At home, we have twococks.We also have manychickens.The chickens lay manyeggs. This is a mouse.Mice are dangerousanimals.They eat food.They also destroyclothes.They can causedisease. This is a dog.Dogs are domesticanimals.Our dog is called Daa.He barks a lot. This is an umbrella.My parents have a bigumbrella.It has red, blue, orangeand green colours.When it rains, we usean umbrella so we donot get wet. I am in class two and I know many things.I want to know many more.What I do not know, I ask my parents or my teacher.

Once upon a time there livedtwo friends, Hyena and Hare.Hyena was a hardworkingfarmer. He woke up early everymorning and went to work in hisfield. Hare woke up when it wasalready broad daylight. Hewould yawn and stretch. Thenhe would go looking for food. Most mornings, Hare would takesome seeds from Hyena'sgranary. Then he went to hisfield and pretended to work. Hewould light a fire and roast theseeds. He did nothing, excepteat roasted seeds. At harvest time, Hare went andstole his friend's ripe maize. Hecarried it to his own granary. Hyena complained about thestolen crops. Hare answered,"Maybe the neighbours stoleyour maize. They are sufferingfrom famine because they arelazy." Hyena thought about thisproblem for a long time. Hecame up with an idea.He collected gum from thetrees. He put that sticky gumaround the whole field. Thethief would get stuck in thegum. During the night, Hare went toHyena's field to steal moremaize. Before entering the fieldhe looked around to see if itwas safe. Hare did not see the gum thatHyena had put around the field.Hare stood in the gum and wasstuck. He started shouting forhelp. Hyena heard the shouts and ranout to catch the thief.He could not believe his eyes. Itwas his friend Hare who wasstuck in the gum! From that time, Hyena went his way and Hare went theother way.That marked the end of their friendship.

Baboon and Crocodile were thebest of friends. They playedtogether. They ate together.They did everything together. But one day, Crocodile got sosick that he was almost dead.When he saw that his sicknesswas getting worse, Crocodilewent to the nyabezi who said,"If you want to get better, youhave to eat baboon meat." When he heard this, Crocodilewas sad. But there was no otheroption to heal himself except toeat his friend the baboon. When Baboon went to see hisfriend, Crocodile put him on hisback and took him out to thedeepest part of the river. Crocodile said, "The nyabezitold me that if I am to be healedI must eat you, my friend." Then, Baboon replied, "No, myfriend. Don't eat me. I'm toosmall. Wait a minute and I'll callmy grandfather. He's biggerthan me. Eat him and you'll befull." Then Crocodile said, "Where isthis grandfather of yours?"Baboon said, "He's in that tree,over on that island." Crocodilesaid, "Go get him so that I mayeat him." Baboon jumped off Crocodile'sback and ran straight up thetree and stayed there. Crocodilewaited and waited. But hedidn't see any sign of Baboon.And that was the end of theirfriendship.

once upon a time the was a girlby the name of EmilyEmily was very naughty whenever her mother asked herto do anything she would refuse One day her mother was sick.She asked her to go hergrandma and ask for somespecial medicine, so that shecan drink and get better.Because Emily was naughty,she decided to go and have aswim on her way to grand ma. It became late, her mother started to worry. Her mother called the people of the village to help her look for Emily She was very worried becausethere was a monster who eatslittle girls at night While the people were lookingfor Emily, she was still havingfun in the pond.She was not aware of thedarkness It was time for dinner for themonster and he started lookingfor food. As he was walking hestarted to smell a little girl.The village people were gettingcloser and closer to the pond. Emily saw the monster comingand she started to scream.The people of the village hearda little girl's scream and theystarted to run towards the voice The people of the village foundemily still in the pond, she wasvery scared.And from that day she learnedto listen and to respect hermother.

Mansha is the only daughter of her parents. Since they both used to work to earn a living, Mansha was brought up by her granny. Granny used to narrate lovely stories to Mansha at night as well as during the day. Due to this, Mansha had developed the habit of dreaming of living a life inspired by nature. One day granny and Mansha were walking in the garden. As Mansha came across beautiful flowers blooming gracefully, she told her granny, " I dream to become like these flowers which are a symbol of love, peace and beauty. I shall symbolize harmony!" Upon reaching home, as she sat by the window she saw the birds flying high up in the sky. She called out to her granny and said, "Granny! I dream to become a bird so that I can fly high up in the sky and touch it!" At night when she was listening to her granny's bed-time story about stars, she jumped up with joy and said, "Granny! I dream to become a star so that I can twinkle and shine bright and spread light everywhere!" Her granny hugged her and said, "You should dream big but for that you got to have a lot of patience and courage to make to dream come true." Mansha replied, "Yes granny! With your guidance and support I shall surely fulfill my dreams." Saying so she hugged her granny and got lost in her world of dreams.

Once upon a time there lived a young girlcalled Mwari. Her parents used to send her to collectfirewood near the forest,but with caution not togo inside the forest for the forest was full ofdangerous animals and ogres. As she looked inside the forest she saw a bigdry log lying on the ground. One day Mwariwent to collect firewood as usual. She took the axe and entered into the forest.As she started cutting the fallen tree intopieces she heard a big sound asking," who istouching my firewood?" Mwari was so scared, she triedto run but the ogre grabbed herby hand. It told her she will make it's lunch meal byboiling in a big pot. Her screams alerted other villagers who hadcome to collect firewood too They ran back to the village andinformed the village warriorswho went to the forest to fightthe ogre. Although many of them wereinjured they managed to rescueher. She learnt her lesson to obeywhat she was told.

Sam the dragon was a flying lighthouse. He showed ships the way back home by breathing out fire. Sam's best friend was called Sar. He was a movie star. He acted in Dragon Breath the movie as a road. But he was not very good at singing. Sam was far away from his parents. He wanted to go home. Toothless was Sam's Doctor. He told Sam to go home to see his parents. Toothless told Sam to follow the square footprints home. On the way home, Sam saw many strange things. Like a Cactus Dragon. He met a girl called Sham. He asked her to help him find his way because he was lost and very sad. She looked at her Dragon Book to look for Sam's parents and find out where they lived. She said 'We have to follow the Dragon Train. Not the square footprints." The Dragon Train went straight to Sam's house. When he saw his father in the sky, Sam felt happy! This is Sam's mother. She is burning food for dinner. She has made Sam's favourite food: pasta. Sam goes back to his job. He is happy now because he has met his parents now.

Mape is a sad ape.Mape's mom sent himaway from home. Mape is very sad.And he will not eat hisbananas. Mape is very tired.But he will not eat hisfruit. Mape fell out a treewhile he was sleeping.He hit the ground.BOOM!!! Everywhere aroundMape the bushes weremoving.Mape did not have theenergy to run away orclimb a tree. Mape was so scared!But then an apple fellfrom a tree. Mape ate the apple.Then he ran and ran,until he could not runanymore. He did not know wherehe was running to.He just knew he had toget away from thebushes! Mape finally got to afield where he couldrest.He ate many fruits toget energy. Mape had a lot ofenergy from eatingfruit.He started to dance. Mape began a dancingshow for all theanimals.Before and after theshow he would alwayseat fruit to get energy. The show was verygood.Even the king of thejungle came to watchthe show. That is how Mapebecame the happy,dancing ape.

It was Nanni's Dodappa's birthday eve. Everyone in the house were busy making preparations for his birthday and our little Nanni was busy chatting with her Dodappa. "Dodappa, what gift would you like to have for your birthday?" Do you want a new shirt? A red car? or a big chocolate? Dodappa smiled and replied "Nanni, I have all of that." Nanni thought and thought, what can I give Dodappa that is special, something that he does not have? Nanni shouted with her eyes wide open "Dodappa, I know what gift I will give you." Dodappa asked curiously "What Nanni?". "I will gift you hair on your head for your birthday" answered Nanni proudly to her balding Dodappa. Dodappa said, "Now that sounds like a great gift, but how will you gift me hair on my head Nanni? Nanni immediately replied "I Know Dodappa I will colour your head with my crayons and it will look like hair". Dodappa with a naughty grin on his face said "Oh! Nanni, but that will wash off when I have a bath". Nanni said "Hmmm.... then I will buy a wig from the market for you". Dodappa noded his head side ways and said "Sorry Nanni, I do not like the idea of a wig either". Nanni was thinking hard now how could she gift Dodappa "hair" on his birthday? Nanni with a serious look on her face replied "I will cut some of my hair and stick it on your head ". Dodappa said "That is sweet of you Nanni, but I would like to have my own hair on my head". Nanni pondered and said "Dodappa, Dodappa, you know what, I got an idea. I will cut your moustache hair and plant it on your head". "Just like Amma, Amma plants the little plants in our garden which after some time grows into big trees ". Dodappa had a hearty laugh HA HA HA... still laughing he said "Nanni, your thought of giving me a headfull of hair - that is the funniest birthday gift I have ever got. Thank you my dear Nanni".Will Dodappa's hair grow then? Nanni is still wondering. What would you do to grow Dodappa's hair back?

Every morning, Natasha's parents would awaken her brother, Karan, and her. Natasha would hurry up all her morning chores and get dressed for school. Natasha loved going to school! Here she got to meet all her friends. Her friends didn't share the same enthusiasm though, because Natasha was quite meddlesome. Often in her excitement to reach school, Natasha would be the first one there. This gave her a chance to snoop around. One such day, she picked up a personal diary. "Nosy Natasha! Why on earth would Rohan call me that?", she cried out as she looked up from Rohan's diary, "I thought we were friends". She marched to his house. "Rohan, why do you call me Nosy Natasha in your diary? That is so untrue" cried Natasha. Rohan replied, "Isn't that ironic? You just read my personal diary!" "Oh I get it now", she replied, "I was being rather nosy reading your personal diary. I just did an IRONY!" She apologized for her behavior and promised never to do it again. That evening, Natasha told her mom of the two lessons she had learnt. She now knew not to touch other people's things without permission and what 'irony" meant.

Hello! My name is Nanu. I am waiting with my mother for ataxi. We are going home. Here I am standing in line. My mother sings me a song."Come Mr Taxi can't you see? We are waiting, Nanu and me!" The lady next to me is taking her chickens home. They willlay eggs for her to eat. These men are coming back from work. They smile at me. Ihear them sing, "Hey little Nanu, don't you worry. Taxi'scoming in a hurry." A lady walks past. She is a very smart lady. Aren't her shoesbeautiful? They go "click, click, click...click, click, click..."when she walks. This man is selling cold drinks. I love cold drinks. They are socold and sweet. Do you like them? Look! There are ladies taking their supper home on theirheads. Aren't they clever? That lady is having her hair done. She is going out with herfriends tonight. I am tired now. My mother puts me on her back where I canrest. She sings, "Please Mr Taxi, don't be late, Gogo iswaiting at our gate." There is my friend Tumi. He is also resting. We will be homesoon. High up there the birds are flying home. They must get homebefore it is dark. This lady has beautiful earrings. I think she bought them intown today. When I grow up I will buy many earrings for meand my mother. My mother is getting tired now. I sing her a song, "Please MrTaxi, won't you come, we are waiting, me and mum." Wait! I can hear the taxi! Here it comes!!! This is our big red taxi. It has come to take me and mymother home. I am very happy! Goodbye!!!

Shriya was the only child to her parents.Her neighborhood had no kids. Shriya felt bored. Her dad felt sorry for Shriya.He decided to cheer her up by bringing her a pet parrot.Shriya was very happy. Shriya would spend as much time with her parrot.She named her 'Piyali'.She would wave Piyali 'Bye' and then only leave for school.She would greet Piyali with a 'Hi' when she got back from school. Days passed.Shriya noticed that Piyali was very dull. She did not respond to Shriya's 'Hi's and 'Bye's.Shriya wanted to help Piyali but did not know how. She asked Piyali"O Piyali. Why do you look sad these days?""Don't you not like our home?"To her surprise Piyali replied"No. I do like it here but I miss my family. I miss my friends/"Shriya asked Piyali "But are we not your family?"Piyali replied "Yes. But I like to be with my mother and father. Tell me Shriya, will you be able to live away from your amma and appa?"Shriya replied "Definitely No".Piyali replied "See. I can't too. I want to go and live with my family." Shriya could not sleep that night.Next morning, when she woke up, she went straight to the balcony where Piyali's cage was hung.She opened the cage and set Piyali free, saying "Go home Piyali. Go back to your amma and appa. Go back to your friends. But do not forget me. Do visit me."Piyali was very happy. She turned towards Shriya, waved her a Bye and said "Thank you Shriya. We will be friends forever. I will visit you often." As Shriya watched from her balcony, Piyali flew up and up high in the air.She joined her amma, her appa and her friends who were waiting for her all these days. And they all soared up and up high inthe sky with Piyali leading them.Piyali squealed in glee. Shriya felt so happy that she set Piyali free and now Piyali was happily living, flying, squealing with her parents, and her friends.Shriya realised that she needed to be go to the park and make new friends and not feel bored anymore.So from then on, Shriya and her friends went to the park regularly to play, sing and dance and also hoping that Piyali and her friends would visit them some day.- The End -

There was once a girl named Lilly. She was 7 years old. Her father's name was Tirth. He bought a new parrot for Lilly because it was her birthday. One day when Lilly was feeding Yuri. Yuri suddenly spat the food out of his mouth and started chirping harshly at Lilly. Lilly was astonished that Yuri could also behave in such a bad manner being such an honorable parrot. So Lilly asked Yuri, "what is the matter, Yuri?". The reply in return was "since you are not taking me outside in the fresh air , I feel bored sitting in one place." "I am so sorry. I cannot take you out right now" says, Lilly as she leaves for school. In school, at the time of recess, Lilly is playing with her friends in the playground. And Yuri was getting bored at home. At this point Lilly realizes that "I am playing here with my friends and having so much, Yuri is lonely without any friends. I am so mean." When she gets back home, she is embarassed that she did not take Yuri out to play with his friends. Seeing Yuri upset, Lilly tried to talk to him. But Yuri was not willing to talk to her. Now Yuri was getting angrier moment by moment. The next step taken by Yuri was to flap his feathers vigorously and try to fly away with the cage. Lilly's neighbour saw Yuri falling down from the window, he picked him up and brought him back to Lilly. And Lilly decided to set him free because she realized that friends and family were important to everyone and so Yuri must be with his friends and family. Yuri was ecstatic and overjoyed to be with his family and friends in the fresh and open air.

Long time ago, there were four little friends namely: Joel, Jonah, Job and Jacob. They were studying at Busolwe primary school. The boys used to go to school with out taking tea. They used to feel sleepy at school all the because of hunger. One day, they decided to go to to a nearby trading center called gampe and look for something to eat. After crossing to a nearby trading center, they saw a bigger banana bunch in a box at the veranda. The boys whispered at each other hahahaaaaa ...... we have been very hungry but......, said Jonah. All ran to the veranda. picked up some bananas from the box, smiled and started eating. Do you know what they forgot to do? While eating, the owner of the bananas came walking in bigger strides. "Who has given you my bananas?" asked the man. As soon as they heard that voice, the boys ran as fast as they could and hid somewhere. They said to each other that no laughing, no coughing and no talking. The owner of the bananas made an alarm, "wulululululua, here are the thieves." The boys were arrested, taken to school, called their parents, the teachers, and the school children to gather. The boys were given a punishment. Each got some ten strokes and repented not to steal anything again.

Two best friends , Gini and Jojo along with their beloved doggie , Tommy, return home from school complaining about the food they got , as usual . They heard a tree calling them . They ran towards the tree . Mr. Talking tree , was a 50 year old magical wise tree, living in Alpha town . He heard them talking to each other and decides to teach them how to appreciate their meals . Mr. Talking Tree decided to give them different variety of food items to taste . The first thing he gave them was 'Coconut water' , they found it to be very 'sweet' and 'refreshing' .Then he gave them 'imli' which was very 'sour' . Next he gave them a cup of 'coffee' . They found that to be 'bitter' but energizing .Then he gave them a bowl of 'dal', which they enjoyed very much . Gini and Jojo , realised that every food item has its own different taste and must be appreciated . They go back home promising never to complain about the food they get at school or even what thier mom cooks at home .

"What is it you are thinking of Madhu?" asked Gowri Miss.Miss Gowri was the 1st Grade Class Teacher. She taught English. Every child in 1st Grade liked her a lot."I had a dream yesterday night. I was thinking about it.""Interesting. What did you dream about?" asked Gowri Miss."I saw you flying like a bird in my dream." replied Madhu."Oh. That's nice. Did I fly well? What was the color of my wings?" asked Gowri Miss."You had white wings." replied Madhu."That's nice. What else did you dream of dear?" asked Gowri Miss. "I had a dream that I am flying an aeroplane." replied Madhu."Interesting. Do you like Aeroplanes that much?" asked Gowri Miss."I love aeroplanes. I like to see them flying in the air. I want to fly an aeroplane every day." said Madhu."Awesome. You need to be a pilot for that." "Yes. I want to be a Pilot when I grow up." "I will learn to take off the Aeroplane." "I will learn to use the buttons properly." quipped Madhu in excitement."Madhu. Do you know where these buttons are found in the aeroplane?" asked Gowri Miss."Yes Miss. The buttons and controls are found in the Cockpit. The pilots sit in the Cockpit too. Amma and Appa have told me all about it and even taken me once there." replied Madhu."Oh. That's nice. Where do you want to fly to?" asked Gowri Miss. "I want to fly to Delhi." replied Madhu."Why Delhi?" asked Gowri Miss."Because my amma told me that it is very far. I can fly along with the birds for a long time then." replied Madhu. "I want to fly near the clouds." I want to fly as high as the birds." continued Madhu."I am so proud of you, Madhu. I wish your dreams come true one day." said Gowri Miss."Thank You Gowri Miss." replied Madhu.Hi friends,This is Madhu here.My dream is to be a Pilot.What is your dream to be?Do tell me.Bye-Bye for now.-MadhuAuthor's Note--------------------It is very easy for the kids to learn the concept of Nouns - Proper and Common and Verbs when they get to see/read them in/from a book.In this short story, the Proper Nouns are in Bold, while the Common Nouns are in Italics.The few verbs which are used in this story are Underlined.Not all nouns and verbs are addressed with these notations. I have just highlighted very few.

Karthik loved to read.He loved to read about Fairies, Rain, Sun and Flowers.During holidays, he would go to the park with his books, sit under a tree and simply begin to read. He would sit in his room on his play mat and lean against his dog and begin to read.He loved animals. He loved reading about animals.Karthik's favorite book was the one on animals. His dad had gifted him one on his 5th birthday. Karthik had an elder brother called Kaushik.Kaushik loved reading too. Being older, Kaushik liked to read books on Math and Science. Karthik's best friend was Kavya. They studied together in the same class in school.Very often, Karthik would ask Kavya to read along with him.After reading their books, they would tell each other what they read. Sometimes he would ask Kavya to read a book aloud to him while he would listen to her in attention.Such was Karthik's fondness for reading books.Are you fond of reading books too? :)Author's Note--------------------Books are an ideal gift for young readers..Books instill strong feelings of confidence, courage and happiness in young minds.They take them into a magical world where humans can fly, animals can talk, robots can sing and aliens can dance.A few tips to instill reading habit in your child/children:______________________________________________________________1. Pamper your child or your children with books relevant to their age.2. Talk to your child/children about the importance of reading books.3. Spend at least 15-20 minutes of each day reading a book to your child or children.4. Make a reading nook in your home, grab a book, one for yourself, one for your child and read together. If a dedicated reading nook is not possible, make any and every place your reading nook - on the bed, in center of your living room and even under the dining table :)5. Take your child or children to Public Libraries and help them to choose/pick a book for reading.6. Take them for story sessions happening in your locality once in a while.7. Importantly, talk to them about the book they read.Thanks!Anusha

Aditya, Vidya and Vedant are siblings living in the heart of Kashmir. They are the apple of their parents eyes. Thou they fight like bulls with each other, the love between them is palbable. They have a pet dog named ILU. It is from their pet that they have learnt what it is to love without expectation. Aditya and Vedant are very close to ILU, thou Vidya differs in this aspect. She is not as fond of ILU as the other two. Vidya feels that ILU has divided the love between the siblings. She feels left out. One day Vidya was alone in the house as his sibling had gone to the market with mother. ILU went to Vidya and started licking her cheek out of love. Vidya got angry and pushed ILU away. She shouted at ILU and asked him to stay far. ILU went away immediately After some time Vidya heard some noise from a corner of the house. When she went to the corner she saw that ILU was whimpering. Vidya just patted ILU and ILU jumped with joy and cuddled into Vidya's lap. Vidya realised her mistake and also how much ILU loved her. From that day onwards Vidya along with Adtiya and Vedant treated ILU like a family member. Seeing this change in Vidya Mummy and daddy are also very happy that Vidya accepted ILU.

Pappa brought home some juicy mangoes."Yummy, yummy" said Nayana and Zia dancing a tango."Let's plant this seed" Nayana said holding the mango seed."Yes! It will grow to a big mango tree" Zia agreed. They dug the soil behind their school and planted the seed."Grow little seed, grow as tall as the sky" they danced with their friends around the seed. The next morning they came running to see the tree.Alas! No tree! Nothing!So they left the seed and went their way. Mr. Sniffy came searching for food."sniff sniff" he sniffed the seed.Oh ho! will it eat our seed?Mr. Sniffy the squirrel gathered dry leaves and laid it over the seed."Winter's coming, sleep well little seed"The seed snuggled under the leaves and dreamed. Spring sprang up! And with it came dragonflies waving their beautiful wings."Swishyswashyswishyswashy wake up lil seedyswashy" their wings sang.Our little seed raised its teeny weeny greeny head and looked around."What a beautiful world!" Along came a hen pecking and cluckingOh ho! will the hen eat up the tiny little shoot?"Cluckety cluck, what a lovely sight!"The hen gave the thirsty little shoot a beak full of water."Gulp gulp" our shoot drank it all up and smiled. SillyOzzy came and sang a silly song."vivellybivelly mangotango bivellyvivellytangomangopippelytippely mango tippelypippely tango"Our little plant danced and grew long. Seasons came one by one,Spring, Summer, Fall and Winter.Sunshine, rainbow and rolling thunderHad their fun and said goodbye when they were done.Our little tree smiled at the sun and the rain,And grew enough leaves to cover a train. Nayana and Zia came walking byAnd thud! A ripe mango fell on their heads.They looked up, and what a sight it was!Golden and yellow , a sky full of sweet mangoes!"That's the prettiest sky ever" they sang with joy!

My name is Bhola. Today, I cannot play cricket as my friends have not come to play. What can I do? I am all alone. Let me take a walk. Oh! Nature is so colourful. Pink and Yellow swaying flowers. Green trees and bushes. Green chirpy Parrots with red beak. Yellow buzzing honey bee. Blue open sky. Brown soft ground. Peach fishes with pink lips in blue water. I am feeling so fresh and happy. Let me do some reading now, under the big shady tree. Wow! Short stories and long stories to read from big books and small books, fat books and thin books. My books, let me be anyone who I want to be. It also takes me to so many places. Now, it is play time with my four legged rockstar friends. So much fun, we are making music together. Bow Bow barks Browny the dog. Meow Meow purrs Maumau the cat. Baa Baa bleats Rani the goat. Squeak Squeak squeaks Chua the rat. I go Sa Re Ga Ma.... Ha Ha Ha, there are so many nice things to do even when I am alone. I just have to look around, the whole world wants to play with me and I am no longer alone. I am so happy.

Ammamma is sleeping. Tilly and Kyle were very hungry.The telephone rang. "May I help you?", asked Kyle. It was Amma calling to say she would be late home from work. She was a nurse at the hospital. She was calling to remind Ammamma that friends were coming to eat a meal with them at their house that evening. The children decided to make a meal. Kyle said to Tilly, "Look at all the dirty vessels! I'll wash one while you look in the refrigerator." Tilly said, "Look! There are lots of different vegetables in the refrigerator. Let's make a vegetable curry and surprise Ammamma!" Kyle and Tilly got busy peeling and cutting vegetables to make the vegetable curry. It was hard work but they had fun doing it together. They put lots of vegetables and some spices into the large vessel to cook on the gas burner. It was not long before Ammamma woke up when there was a knock on the door. When she opened the door, there were all her friends who had arrived to share a meal.Ammamma turned to see Kyle lifting a big pot off the burner. She was happy to know they would have tasty food to share with her family and friends. Ammamma was so pleased with Tilly and Kyle. Everyone could smell the delicious food waiting to be eaten.When Amma arrived home, she told Kyle and Tilly how proud of them she was too.

Danny the Dragon blew fire everywhere,Which hissed through the other dragons, right through their hair.But Danny the Dragon – oh, he didn't care!And the other dragons thought it wasn't fair.If Danny could blow fire, why couldn't they?But try as they might, they couldn't find a way. No fire whooshed out of their nostrils or their mouths,So they'd have to figure another way out.Instead of blowing fire, why couldn't Danny just burp?Those other dragons – they had a plan that just might work. When Danny came along, burning things away,Those other dragons, they plotted to lead him astray.To a forest they took him, a surprise promised.Where Danny had a meal he very much relished. A meal of mangoes, a most delicious fruit,Tasty to humans, but to dragons – a brute!All of it gone, not a single bit left,The mango juice had done what it did best. Danny could no longer blow fire and burn things.His fire was gone, his best things were now wings. Danny the Dragon cried sadly,“Why did they do this to me?”Now all he could do was burp all day,With everyone else laughing away. He flew over and sat in a field of red grass.“Why are you so sad?” a voice asked.A head popped up, it was the Chilly Monster.And Danny realized he had been sitting on Chilly's fur. “Those other dragons stole my fire,” Danny said.“Oh no,” said Chilly Monster shaking his head.“That's not nice of them, why did they do that?”Danny replied, “I burnt their fur and hats.” “I really want my fire back,” Danny said.“Eat some chillies, ones that are red.”The monster smiled, picking out some.And Danny ate them, still quite glum. Suddenly, his throat fired up to red-hot.The fire was back! Danny felt better. A lot!Danny blew the Chilly Monster a fiery thanks and flew off.For, no longer did he burp or cough. So the other dragons couldn't tease him,He had the fire. Once again, he was King!

My name is Neha and my friend's name is Aiyana...We watch movies, have some snacks, Chit- Chat, paint masks, draw and color,play instrument, do horse riding, make lollipops, ice-creams, cup-cakes, chocolates, and cookies. One day I called my friend out in the BEAUTIFUL PARK....We climbed a tall and beautiful tree, and sat on a branch.. Oh I said.. we took some rest. and allwas quiet. A bird came and sat on my hand, we sang a song; flowers started blooming; the sun shined bright; we got fresh air and it felt like MAGIC was surrounding us. It was turning dark. We got down from the tree and we were talking and walking and talking and walking and.... walking and talking and walking and talking. I knew it was my birthday tomorrow but wanted to surprise my friend. I felt happy that she remembered it was my BIRTHDAY. I was filled with joy.I promised to fulfill her dream too.

Browny was the favourite horse of a King. The majestic look of the horse, Browny, attracted everyone in the palace. He was a lucky horse for the king. But Browny was not happy. Browny thought that he had lost his freedom in the palace, though he was well taken care of. One day, he managed to escape from the palace. He was galloping as fast as he could. But he could hear the king's guards chasing him. Without stopping to see, he galloped fast and reached a forest.Only after getting into the forest, he breathed a little. Lucky for him, the guards did not enter the forest.There he saw , many animals wandering here and there. Browny joined them. He was feeling the joy of freedom. He even made friends with a deer and both Browny and the deer were chatting. Suddenly there was a loud roar. Immediately, the deer shouted," Browny, run for your life. The leopard is on its way hunting for food." Realising the danger he was in, he started galloping again. He galloped as fast as he could. He reached a city. There was a huge crowd in a place. That was the 'Sea World', theme park. He pushed the crowd and entered the place. Seeing the horse, some boys started hitting him with stones. To escape from stones, he started running again. Not knowing where to run, he ran into a large gathering. There was a big pool of water around which people were seated. That was a 'Dolphin Show'. Browny was running with such great speed that he jumped into the water in the pool. Water splashed everywhere around the pool. Dolphin, ready for the show also jumped outside.Organisers of the show tried to catch Browny. The fully wet Browny somehow managed to get outside and started galloping again. He started running outside. The king's guards, searching for him, spotted him and shouted "Browny Browny". Tired Browny recognised the guards. Unable to run further, Browny decided to return to the palace. After returning to the palace stable, he thought to himself," No other place on this earth is as safe and comfortable as this stable".He also realised that escaping from the palace, is like jumping into the fire from the frying pan.

We Don't Pick Up Dog Family - Oviee SarwateOne day there was a dog. He had many friends. He wanted to have less friends. One day another dog came and scared him and ran away. Then one cat came and scared the dogs away. The dogs sat in one garden. There they met old friends and make new friends.One girl came and took one dog away because she wanted a pet. She had one sister, she too went to the garden and took one dog home. Then one night when all had dinner and were sleeping and they woke up in the morning, they both sat in bus and go to school. They play in school garden.The dogs ran away when they are in school. When they come back in afternoon after school, they both are crying. They did not study or sleep in the afternoon. Then mummy and papa scolded at children.

Nanni was a young bird who lived near the sea. A young and very naughty bird. She hardly every listened to her parents Ma and Pa bird.One day, early in the morning, when the sun could just about be seen in the horizon, Nanni decided to go an adventure. She didn't tell anyone where she was going. What better adventure than to go and explore that big ship anchored close by!Nanni loved ships. She loved everything about them. So when she saw this one, she turned two somersaults in the air and dived straight in!She ignored the greasy slimy oily layer on the water. When she wanted to soar up into the sky, she found that she couldn't!Poor Nanni, her wings had been coated with ugly, ugly oil! UGH!Nanni cried out for help! MA! PA! Luckily, her parents were close by and flew to her immediately. They gave her a bath, and also a bit of a scolding. Nanni's parents told her, that had she paid attention, she would have seen drums of oil floating on the water near the ship. There must have been a small oil spill!Nanni decided that from then on, she would look before she dived.Getting one's feathers coated in ugly, ugly oil is never a good thing!

Once little Baby boy saw a photo album of his Mommy and Papi. In every picture he tried to find himself, and was very sad that the album only had his parent's pictures and not his.Baby boy was sad and angry. He asked his Mommy "where am I? You went on a holiday without me! Mommy saw how upset Baby boy was. She smiled and said, "That's because, Baby boy you were busy playing in the clouds! When you were very little and wore only diapers, you lived in the white puffy clouds in the sky. You would crawl in and out of them, smile at me and then again crawl back into those clouds" Baby boy was listening with astonishment! Mommy continued, "And then one day, I asked Mr. Crane, who is that cute little baby in the clouds? I would very much like to invite him for some cake and chocolate milk""Mr. Crane looked in your direction and said, Oh I see, you are asking about Baby Boy! he indeed is the cutest little baby in the entire sky. I can very much fly him down here on my back""Mr. Crane, caught you by your diaper and whispered in your ears, hey Baby boy, would you like to meet Mrs. Mommy and eat some cake and have some milk? to which, you replied YES! with a big grin" "And the next min, what do I see!! It's Baby boy, sitting on my bed! I took you in my arms and thanked Mr. Crane and fed you lots of cake and made you some delicious chocolate milk. You then slept as soon as your head touched the pillow. And that is how you came into our house and into our lives"Baby boy was happy again after listening to the story and Mommy and baby boy sat to eat their cake and sip on some chocolate milk.

Ranjit had been waiting all evening for his parents to return from work. He generally would manage himself from 7pm onwards until 8pm. That is after the nanny has left and he is alone at home waiting for his parents. He was 11 years and thought he could manage himself for an hour by himself. But today he was feeling uneasy. He wanted his mum or dad to be around He was at the window for some time now. Mum would anytime be home. He kept telling it to himself. He was not keen to watch TV; the activity he does when nanny leaves for her home. Dinner was cooked but he was not really hungry. He remembered on his good friend Meenu who would love seeing the stars. She had shown how the sky looked beautiful from her home window. He too was staying in a tall building and his home was on the 19th floor. But all he could stare was traffic, buildings and and city lights. Meenu was a good friend who helped him in his studies and he liked talking to her. Today she wasn't at her home too. Her mother answered the phone and told him she has gone out to play with the apartment friends.She asked him if he was alright as Meenu's mum knew he would be alone at home this time. He said he was doing fine and kept the phone. He just wanted someone to be with him in his home. Just then the door bell rang. His mom was there. Ranjit rushed to hug his mum.Talking about the nanny and sensing perhaps Ranjit was feeling lonely without company, His mom told him " I will tell Sheela to be here for the next few days until I come or request her to drop you by 6pm to my office. Is that good. Ranjit was feeling about the change and was now smiling. He felt good and post dinner read a lot of stories with his mum and dad. The day ended well.

Once upon a time, there lived a sister and a brother called Amit and Radha. Amit one day asked his mother 'mom, can I go to a picnic toa swimming pool with my football myself?' His mother told, 'I can't send you. It's very far away and dangerous.' Amit said, 'no mom. I know a swimming pool near by. I will take my swimming suit, football and even Radha. I can't do anything if she does not come.' His mother said, 'ok. but be careful and how will you go?''By my bicycle' shouted Amit as he went to call Radha. Radha was painting a picture. Amit asked 'Radha are you coming with me to the swimming pool?' Radha said, 'but you don't know swimming.' Amit said, "I will swim in the baby pool.' Radha said, "I have done swimming a hundred times. I will not come.' Amit asked her so much, but she refused. So he went all by himself. when he reached the swimming pool, he did not know where to park the bycycle. he parked in a place he did not know. He came inside, changed his dress, kept his football, in a place and jumped inside the babypool and played for sometime there and then came out. He changed his dress and was playing with his football. Suddenly his football fell into the deep pool. It was so deep that he could not go there. He asked someones phone and made a call to hishis mother. Radha picked the phone and said 'hello who is this?' Amit said, 'Radha I am Amit. My football fell into the water. As you know underwater swimming, please come and help me. Radha said, 'sure.' and told her mother about this and went to the swimming pool with her bicycle and swimming dress. Amit was waiting for Radha and when she came, he said sadly, 'my football is already drowned.' Radha said, 'It's ok.' She wore her swimming dress and jumped into the water. After a minute, she came out with his football. She gave it to Amit and changed her dress and came to Amit underwater swimming and stay in the water for an hour.' He whispherd, 'Then you will be dead' Radha laughed. Then they both laughed and went home on their bicycles happily.

Once upon a time there was a beautiful girl. Her name was Daisy. She was so beautiful, so beautiful, that gods, men and animals all loved her. But there was an ugly and wicked sea-beast Moron, who liked to get anything beautiful and precious and store it in his palace under the sea. One day when Daisy was playing on the sea shore with wet sand and sea-shells, Moron saw her. His eyes glittered and he came up on the sea-shore and touched Daisy softly with the tip of his tail. Daisy who was innocent and loving smiled at Moron and soon Moron trapped her into a conversation with his false sugared words. Daisy did not suspect any trick and was talking her heart out about her books, toys and flowers and birds that she loved. All the time Moron was smiling a toothy smile, and getting closer and closer to Daisy. Daisy did not like the salty sea-weedy smell coming from Moron's body. But before she could get up and run away Moron caught her and dragged her into the wide blue sea where no one could hear Daisy cry but only the fishes and porpoises who were busy playing and did not bother about what Moron was doing. Moron kept Daisy locked in a room in his palace. The room had only one window which opened out to the sea. Sunlight did not reach the room. Daisy cried and cried till one night the Moon heard her cry. He peeped through the window of the room in Moron's palace where Daisy was crying her heart out. The Moon took pity on her and changed her into a white sea-bird. Daisy flew out of the window and went and sat on a mast of a ship that was sailing on the sea. Moron never saw her again.

Shyamlal came home wearing headphones and smiling, while he was listening to the latest songs launched. His wife was ready with dinner and his kids were there eagerly waiting for bed time since Shyamlal would tell wonderful tales about the great Tenali Ram. Today there was a special dinner, Ma's (Mother) amazing Pongal, Sambar with Shyamlal's favouite vegetables, Steaming rice and delicious curd with pieces of pomegranate. Suddenly Shyamlal remembered that he had to pay the moneylender , Give the carpenter back his hammer, Buy a new measuring tape for the tailor and buy his wife some rose flowers for the garden! Shyamlal did not remind his wife about anything, he quietly just sat down and started to eat. After some time Shyamlal forgot about everything and calmed down. He was as cool as a cucumber after an hour. In the morning, First he went to the moneylender................... Next he went to the carpenter............... Then to the tailor............ Finally to the bazaar............ And then to Home, Home, Home!......... Shyamlal's work is done now at last he can rest. Poor Shyamlal! He had a load of work to do. Shyamlal is busy, to be specific, he is always too busy. Watch out Shyamlal or one day you will be in great trouble! Always remember to do your work in time or else you will suffer like Shyamlal Babu.

A small bulbuli bird once built its nest on a tree in the king's garden. One day it stole a gold coin from the king's counting house when the king was counting his money. The next morning it was chirping "I am as rich as the king!" The king sent his men to find out what was in bulbuli's nest. They found the coin and brought it to the king. Bulbuli was very angry. It was dancing and saying "The king is a beggar! He has stolen my money!" The king told his men to return the coin in the bulbuli's nest. When they did so bulbuli started shouting "The king is afraid of me. He has returned my money" Now the king was very very angry. He ordered his men to catch the naughty bird and bring it to him. When they brought the bird the king swallowed it with a glass of water. But the moment he opened his mouth wide to yawn the bird came out and flew away and whistled sitting on a tree. The king again sent his soldiers to catch the bird. When the bird was brought the king swallowed it for the second time but instructed his soldiers to be prepared with their swords. The moment the bird flew out of his mouth they should chop off its head with their sword. The soldiers were standing with their uplifted swords. The king yawned. Bulbuli came out. Slash camedown the sword. But instead of bulbuli's head they missed their aim and chopped off the king's nose! The bird was singing now "The king has lost his nose!Serves him right."

Here is a tree.The tree is on the ground.And green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree. The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil.And green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree. The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil. Soil covers the roots.And green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree.The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil.Soil covers the roots.The trunk stands above.And green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree.The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil.Soil covers the roots.The trunk stands above.And branches spread from the trunk.And green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree.The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil.Soil covers the roots.The trunk stands above.Branches spread from the trunk,and leaves sprout from the branches,and green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree.The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil.Soil covers the roots.The trunk stands above.Branches spread from the trunk.Leaves sprout from the branches.And flowers bloom by the leaves,and green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree.The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil.Soil covers the roots.The trunk stands above.Branches spread from the trunk.Leaves sprout from the branches.Flowers bloom by the leaves.And fruits grow from flowers,and green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree.The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil.Soil covers the roots.The trunk stands above.Branches spread from the trunk.Leaves sprout from the branches.Flowers bloom by the leaves.Fruits grow from flowers.And inside the fruit is a seed.And green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Soon...A tiny little plant will come from the seed. One day it will be a tree.And green grass will grow all around.And green grass will grow all around.

Kumahlathi ashinyeneyo akude kwakuhlala uJoja ingwenya.Le ngwenya yayisoloko ilila ezo nyembezi zininzizeengwenya okanye ijoje isezela umoya. Umama kaJojawayedinwa kukulila nokujoja kwalengwenya. Wayedlangokuyingxolisa athi: “Khawuyeke le nto yokusoloko ulilaujoja usezela, ziphathe njengezinye iingwenya. Hambauyokuzingela ukutya.” Kodwa uJoja wayesuka asitshoisikhalo zithi waxa iinyembezi xa ecinga ngokuba kufunekaatye ezinye izilwanyana. Kwakuye kunyanzeleke ukubaumama notata kaJoja basoloko bempha ukutya yonkeimihla.  Ujoja wayengakuthandi kwaphela ukuba yingwe. “Ndimbikakhulu,” wayecinga kuthi kusenjalo zithi waxa iinyembezi.Wayengafuni nokuphila njengezinye iingwenya. Umhlobowakhe omkhulu yayinguNogolide iNogolide owayemhleembala ubugolide butyheli. UNogolide lo wayefunaukubamkhulu kwaye omelele. Ngoko ke uNogolidewayesoloko efinga uphiko lwakhe elwenza inqindi athi:“Lumka! Ndiyakukubetha emlonyeni.” Esi sibini sasihlekisangenene. UJoja wayekuthanda nokuqubha lo gamauNogolide ethe ngcu apha entloko kuye. Ezinye iingwenyazazibahleka zibagezele. Yayingamkhathazi nakancinaneuJoja loo nto. Waqhubekeka esezela umoya engumhlobokaNogolide.  Ngenye imvakwemini ilanga lalitshisa kakhulu. UNogolidewahlala wathi ngcu apha ecaleni kwendlebe kaJojawamsebezela wathi: “Ndibona amadododa amabiniaphethe imipu esiza kweli cala. Afuna ukubulala iingwenyakuba afuna ukuthatha izikhumba zazo.”“Ingaba la madoda awanazo ezawo izikhumba?” wabuzauJoja emangalisiwe.“Andazi Joja,” waphendula watsho uNogolide. “Ncedauxelele nezinye iingwenya ukuze nizimele.”“Kodwa nawe mhlobo wam Nogolide angakudubula lamadoda.” Yho! Ndingayintoni ngaphandle kwakho mhlobowam?” walila uNgwenya sele enesingqala esikhulu. “Abantu bayawabamba amabhabhathane ngeminathabawabethelele ebhodini, oko ndakuxelelwa ngumakaziwam owayengumakhulu,” watsho uNogolide wabe seleebhabha esimka.  Ezinye iingwenya zeva uJoja ekhala ekhwaza, “Amadodaayeza azakusibulala. Zimelani…Khawulezani… Zimelani.”Kuqala iingwenya azizange zimkholelwe uJoja, kodwa zevaizingqi zamadoda.Iingwenya zangena nzulu emlanjeni zashiya iziqobo zemithiebolileyo idada phesu kwamanzi. Amadoda adubula ezoziqobo zemithi kuba zazijongeka zifana neengwenya xauzibonela kude. Emva koko la madoda awazange aphindeazibone iingwenya. Abona sele kubhabha amakhulungamakhulu amabhabhathane ebhabha ebusweninasezinweleni zawo.  Anikina iintloko ezama ukususa loomabhabhathane esithi: “Akukho zingwenyaapha, masize neminatha ukuze sibambe lamabhabhathane.” Atsho ehamba la madoda.Zadibana zonke iingwenya zabulela zathi:“Enkosi, Nogolide.”“Enkosi mabhabhathane.” Ngemini elandelayo uJoja wabona amadodaaphethe iminatha. Wakhumbulaawayekuxelelwe nguNogolide ngeminatha.“Nogolide, iminatha! Khawuleza uze apha!Amadona aneminatha ayeza.”Zonke iingwenya zaya elunxwemeni lomlambo.Amabhabhathane athi ngcu emiqolweninakwiintloko zeengwenya. Ezinye iingwenya zarhangqela amadoda ngokuye esondela.Ingwenya zavesa loo mazinyo azo abukhali anemihlathiemide. UJoja wayephambili kuzo zonke iingwenya evezaamazinyo wakhe ejiwuza nomsila wakhe. Loo madodaooyika azibeleka iinyawo zawo ukubaleka ephuma kwelohlathi.Ezinye iingwenya zazinebhongo nguJoja kuba waziphathanjengengwenya yokwenene. Ngoku uJoja nayewayenebhongo ngokuba yingwenya.  Wonke amabhabhathane abhabha bhezu kweengwenyaeqhwaba amaphiko awo.“Enkosi Joja,“Enkosi zingwenya.”“Kulungile,” watsho uJoja eneentloni.“Kakade abahlobo bayancedana,kwaye bayakhathalelana.”

Kwakukho ihlathi elimnyama.Yayilihlathi elikhulu elimnyama.Kwakukho imithi emininzi nendlela emxinwa.Izilwanyana ezininzi neentaka zazihlala apha.Ngenye imin, zonke izilwanyana zadibana.“Uvile?”wabuza uTota, isikhwenene. “Ewe” watsho uHirni, ixhama.“Intoni?” wabuza uDarpok, umvundla. “Sinesikolo ehlathini,”Waphendula uZhoola, inkawu.UMota, indlovu yamangaliseka, “Hmph?”uLamboo, indlulamthi yathi, “Oo kulungile!”uDheema, inkumba yatswina, “Khawuleza, masihambe. UTota, isikhwenene sabhabha phambili.UZhoola, inkawu yatsiba emthini ukuya komnye umthi.UPoorakha, irhamba larhubuluza ngokukhawuleza.“Apha!” wakhwaza uTota. “Ungafunda?”“Igqwethekile, ndiyacinga,” watsho uZhoola ejinga esebeni UPoorakha waqgibezela, “Si-i-i-i-i.Akukho mntu unokufunda.”Kwakamsinya, bonke abanye abahlobo baqhagamshelane nabo.ULamboo wajonga ngapha komthi.“Akukho mntu apha,” watsho.UZhoola waphinda, “Akukho mntu apha.”UTota wacebisa,”Jonga ngocoselelo!” UPilloo, ibhere elincinane wapapasha, “Ndifumene igumbi!”“Ndifumene ujingi,” wachaza uDheema."Zintoni ezi ziqobo?”UDarpok wafuna ukwazi.“Yintoni le?” Yayingumbuzo kaZhoola.UPoorakha wacacisa, “Ndiyakholwa ukuba yipensile le.”UMota noLamboo bafumana igumbi lokufundela.Babiza abanye, “Jonga, yintoni le!” Wonke ubani weza nobhaka.Baqalisa ukukhwaza, “ Titshala! Titshala!Uphi utitshala wethu??”Akwabikho waziyo.Baza beva umgqumo.Beva umgqumo omkhulu. Beva umgqumokazi. UPoorakha wakhathazeka. UDeema woyika.UTota wazimela emva kwebhodi.ULamboo noZhoola babedidekile.Ngubani lo?“Hupu!" Watsho uZhoola inkawu.Akwatheha nomnye.Bonke bajonga kutitshala.Phezulu naphantsi ngocoselelo.Baza bajongana omnye nomnye. Utitshala wajika ukuba abhale ebhodini.“Xhuma,” watsho uZhoola.“Bhabha!” watsho uTota.Ngqe-e, ngqe-e, ngqe-e, wabaleka uMota.“Baleka, baleka, baleka, ngokukhawuleza,” wakhwaza uDheema.“Bhagoooo,” bakhwaza bonke ngexesha elinye.Wathi akujika utitshala…Kwakungekho nomnye eklasini.

Kumyezo othile kwidolophukazienkulu kwakukho umthiomkhulu. Izilwanyana ezininzizazihlala kunye kulomthimkhulu. Kwakuhlala nosapholwamagala kulo mthi.UViki wayelelinye lamagalaawayethanda ukuthethakakhulu.Umzala wakhe uKato wayesukakwihlathi elikudeezekumndwendwela. Ngobunye ubusuku izilwanyanaezazihlala kulomyezozazilungiselela ukuya kulala.Zeva ingxolo enkulu isukakwipaki ekufutshane aphokulomyezo. UKato namanye amagalababona oomatshini abakhuluabamthubi. Kwakukhonamadoda anxibe iminqwaziemthubi eqinileyo. La madodaayekhomba kulomyezonakwizindlu ezazikwisitalatoesikufutshane apho emyezweni.Babezakudiliza zonke ezo zindlubaze bakhe ibala lokukisaiimoto. Abantu ababehlala aphokwakufuneka bayekuhlalakwezinye izindlu, kodwaakuzange kubekho namnyeowayecinga ngezilwanyana,iintaka unye nezinambuzaneezazihlala apho emyezweni. Ezi matshini zaqala zabonwalusapho lweentuku. Oyenawazibona kuqala yabangumnumzana uPopisiowayemdala waza waxelelaumnumzana uMopisi owathiyena waxelela umninawa wabouPopisi omncinane. Ngokuya babebancinibabebizwa Popi, Mopi kunyenoPipo. Umnumzana uPopisi waxelela amagala, amagala axelelaiintaka, iintothoviyane, amabhahathane, izigcwawuezincinane kunye nabo bonke ababehlala apho kulomyezo.Kwabakho ukuxhalaba okukhulu abanye bebaleka, abanyebebhabha abanye betsibatsiba kungekho nomnye owaziyoukuma makathini na okanye aye phi na.Iintothoviyane zathi: “Masikhangeleni amagqabi.”Amabhabhathane athi, “Thina sifuna iintyatyambo.”Iimpuku zafuna imingxunya. Iintuku zafuna ukuzigrumbelaeyazo imingxuma. Amagala, iintaka, izinambuzane zafunaimithi, amahlahla kunye nengca.Zonke izilwanyana zazifuna umhlaba othamileyozingayifuni isamente okanye ikokriti. “Sizakuyifumana phiyonke le nto?” zakhala zibuza. “Inene sizakufa,” zatshozilila iinyembezi ziphokoka.  Umalume noninakazi kaKato's babethule bethecwaka. Wonke amagala akhasela ngakoomamabawo.UKato wathinta umqala wathetha eneentloni,“Ndihlala kwihlathi elikude, mhlawumbi sonkesingaya khona?”Kwaba ngumndilili wemincili abanye bathi,“Njani?”UKato wakrwempa intloko ecinga nzulu,“Kulungile ke, amagala, amabhabhathane,izigcawu, iintothoviyane nazo zonkeizinambuzane zingakhwela kuloliwe wamagala.Iintaka zingabhabha okanye zikhwele kunyenathi. Iintuku, iimouku kunye neenyokazingakhwela kuloliwe ohamba phantsikomhlaba.”  Bonke bacinga ukuba licebo elihle eli.Umnumzana uPopisi wakhauleza wayakumnumzana uGolozayo owayengumqhubikaloliwe ohamba phantsi komhlaba. Wambuzaukuba angabathatha bonke ukubasa kwihlathielikude kusini na. Umnumzana uGolozayowampampatha, wafifithekisa wagusugushuzaphambi kokuba ambombozele, “Kulungile.”Hayi key aba lithuba likamnumzana uPopisiukuba abe nguchwephetsha. “Ningaxhalabizihlobo, umzukulwana katatomkhulu wam . . .ongumtshana wesithathu kusapholomtshanakazi wesibini unosapho lwakheoluhlala kweli hlathi likude.” Kwangentseni uloliwe wamagalskunye nololiwe weentukuohamba phantsi komhlabawawugcwele uthe ntlingabakhweli. Wahambauqhuqha ujongise kwelo hlathilikude uthwele nemithi,iintyatyambo, amachibi kunyenomhlaba othambileyo.

Kudala-dala, kwakukho indoda eyayinesilonda esibi emlenzeni. Yayingakwazi ukuma nokuhamba. Le ndoda yayihlala elalini nenkosikazi yayo kunye nabantwana babo. Esi sibini sasinoonyana abathathu kunye nentombazana enye. Igama lentombazana yayinguNangila. Umsebenzi kaNangila yayikukunakekela uyise. Amakhwenkwe wona ayesebenza emasimini esolusa nemfuyo. UNangila wayeyintombazana entle. Bonke abantu belali babemthanda futhi bemhlonipha. Abazali bakhe bona babefunela intombi yabo isoka eliqotho. Benza iqhinga elinzima ukuze bafumane eyona ndoda emfaneleyo. Umntu owayefuna ukutshata noNangila kwakufanele ayokufuna iyeza elalifumaneka echibini elalikufutshane nelali leyo. Eli yeza lalizokupholisa isilonda sikatata kaNangila. Kodwa leli chibi laligcwele iziporho nezithunzela ezinobungozi. Amanye amadoda azama ukuya kukha eli yeza kodwa abuya elambatha. Amanye amadoda awazange abuye kwa ukubuya kwelo chibi. UNangila wakhathazeka. Nditsho nabantakwabo babengakwazi ukufika echibini. Ngoko wagqiba ekubeni ayokulikha ngokwakhe eli yeza. Umama wakhe wathi, "Mntwana wam, ucinga ukuba uza kuphumelela na, njengokuba namadoda anamandla ohlulekile?" Kodwa uNangila wayesele esithathile isigqibo, engasenakubuya ngamva. Endleleni eya echibini, uNangila wadibana nexhegwazana elalithwele inyanda yeenkuni. Walithwalela inyanda yalo ixhegwazana. Ixhegokazi labulela laze lathi kuNangila, "Ndiza kukuxelela indlela onokufikelela ngayo echibini leziporho nento ekufanele uyenze xa ufika khona." Wathi xa efikelela enyeleni yechibi, uNangila wabona usapho lweziporho lisela yaye lixhentsa. Walinda wabukela. Suke iziporho zabiwa bubuthongo ngasinye ngexesha. Kwathi xa sele zilele zonke, uNangila wantywilela echibini. Walifumana iyeza waze walifaka epokothweni yakhe. Uthe xa edada ebuyela enyeleni, suke amaza aba made ukumodlula. Iziporho zazisele zivukile ngelixa uNangila efika enyeleni yechibi. Wayesoyika kodwa wacula ingoma awayeyifundiswe lixhegwazana: Mna, ntombi kaWekesa, Ndiphuma echibini. Ndize apha ngoba amadoda ayoyika ukuza. Utata uyalidinga eli yeza ukunyanga isilonda sakhe. Yiyo le nto ndilapha nje, Endaweni apho abaninzi Boyikayo ukufikelela, Kuba nina niphethe. Ilizwi likaNangila lalimnandi kangangokuba iziporho zamcela ukuba aziculele aphindaphinde amatyeli amaninzi. Ukucula kwakhe kwenza ukuba iziporho ziphinde zibiwe bubuthongo. Wasuka apho wathi ngqe-e-e-e ukugoduka ephindela elalini yakhe. Bonke abantu babelindele ukubuya kukaNangila. Emva kokunyanga isilonda sakhe ngeyeza, uyise wakwazi ukuphakama kwakhona. Ilali yonke yalilizela incoma uNangila.

Wavuka uDyakalashe ngentsasaethile elambile. Amathumbu acheayegquma okwenkunziyengonyama kucaca ukubauphethwe mpela liphango.Waphakama wangena endleniekhangela ukutya. Wajukeleza ehlathini ekhangelaukutya ehamba esezela umoyaefuna ukuva ivumba lokutya. Ilangalalitshisa kakhulu. Kwakunzimanokubona kakuhle kuDyakalashengendlela awayelambe ngayo.Wayecinga ngephango kuphela. “Aaawwuuuu ...!” Watshongesikhalo esikhulu umfo omkhulu.Wawa kwisiziba esasiphambikwakhe. Wayelambe kakhuluesezela umoya intamo ithe qhiwuintloko ijonge phezulu ejoja ivumbalokutya. Akazange ajonge aphoahamba khona. “Owu Nkosi yam!” wacinga watsho.“Kufuneka ndiphume kwezi sizibaokanye ndakufela apha liphango.” Usimaqhinga onguDyakalashewakhala ekhwaza: “Ncedani!Ncedani.” UDonki wayesitya ingcakufutshane neso siziba. Wevaisikhalo sikaDyakalashe wabalekaesondela. “Yintoni ingxaki?” Wabuza uDonkiexhalabile.“Hayi wena mhlobo wamandikhaliswa yingxaki kokondinesithukuthezi. La manziamnandi kakhulu kwayeayawupholisa umzimba kweli langalitshisa kangaka. Ndifuna umhloboendinokuqubha naye andichithiseisithukuthezi. Ungangena uqubhekunye nam?” “Inene liyatshisa eli langa,” watshouDonki. Kodwa angekhe ndikwaziukuphuma xa ndingangena kwesisiziba.” Wayethandabuza uDonki.“Ngena mfondini! Ndizakuncedauphume xa udiniwe kukuqubha,”wathembisa uDyakalashe. Dyumpu! Watsiba wangenaesizibeni uDonki. Ayemnanadingenene la manzi. Wauva umzimbawakhe uphola kamnandi. WevangoDyakalashe etsibela emhlanakuye. Wayecinga ukubauDyakalashe uyadlala nje. NankouDyakalashe ephuma esizibeniebaleka ehleka. UDonki washekayedwa kweso soziba exakenenendlela yokuphuma. Waqalisanaye ukukhwaza: “Ncedani!Ncedani!”

Ilali iSinyaire ijikelezwe ziinduli neentaba. Kuhlala iinyoka ezininzi kwihlathi elikwezi ntaba. Eyona nyoka inkulu yayibizwa ngokuba yi-Unyalego ngabantu belali. Le nyoka yayisoyikisa abantu abaninzi kuba yayiginya ibimbilize iibhokhwe kunye neegusha ezipheleleyo. Ngenye imini u-Apiyo, u-Ajoh kunye no Atieno babesiya ehlathini beyokutheza. Umakhulu wala mantombazana wayewalumkisile wathi, "Nilumkele u-Unyalego inyoka enkulu. Ningathathi nenye into ehlathini ngaphandle kweenkuni." U-Ajoh akazange ayihoye nokuyihoya into awayeyixelelwa ngumakhulu wakhe. Amantombazana apakisha umphako wobisi, iibhanana, ibhatata kunye namanzi. Athatha neentambo zokubopha inyanda kunye nezembe lokugawula iinkuni. Ahamba ke aphathelela ukuya ehlathini. Endleleni amantombazana ayehamba ezincokolela nje futhi ehleka, kumnandi. U-Apiyo owayemdala kubo bonke wavakala esithi, "Thulani. Sele sisondele apho kuhlala khona u-Unyalego." U-Atieno wathi, "Yehake, khanijonje nanga amazinyo ka-Unyalego abugolide, masiwathatheni." U-Apiyo wabakhumbuza, "Ningalibali imiyalelo kamakhulu. Akufanelanga ukuba sithathe nantoni na apha ehlathini ngaphandle kweenkuni." U-Ajoh wathi, "Andiyikholelwa mna into ethethwa ngumakhulu. Ndicinga ukuba ubesitsho nje kuba engafuni ukuba sizithathele izinto esizithandayo. Unomona umakhulu. Ndiza kuwathatha mna la mazinyo egolide." Oodadewabo bakhathazeka kakhulu ngale nto. "Ajoh, uze ungathi khange sikuxelele." U-Ajoh akazange abahoye. Kwathi kusenjalo kwathi gqi u-Unyalego ezokukhangela amazinyo akhe. Wacaphuka kakhulu akungawaboni. U-Unyalego weva amantombazana encokola futhi ehleka. Wazimela phantsi kwelitye elikhulu elalikufutshane nendlela amantombazana ayeza kudlula kuyo. Amantombazana ayethwele iinyanda entloko. Eva ngomsindo wenyoka efuthayo, "Fu-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u!" Oothuka azama ukuzimela. Nankuya u-Unyalego phambi kwabo evule umlomo wakhe elindele ukuluma. U-Unyalego wawabuza amantombazana wathi, "Ngubani othathe amazinyo am egolide?" Akuzange kubekho mntu uphendulayo. Inyoka yathi ndiza kumfumana umntu owabileyo. "Lo ongenatyala uza kucula kakuhle angayenzi impazamo kodwa lowo onetyala yena uza kuthi xa ecula kwenzeke impazamo. Uza kuba kukutya kwam kweentsuku ezintathu ezizayo!" U-Apiyo waqala wacula kakuhle akabinangxaki. Kwalandela u-Atieno, naye wacula kakuhle. Ekugqibeleni kwacula u-Ajoh. Wayenexhala kakhulu. Wathi xa eqala ukucula ilizwi latshothoza namazwi engoma akavakala kakuhle. Wakhwaza u-Unyalego wathi, "Awukwazi ukucula kakuhle njengabanye?" Inyoka yabona ukuba nguye kanye u-Ajoh owayethathe amazinyo egolide. Bimbilili! U-Unyalego wamginya u-Ajoh. Oodadewabo babaleka bagoduka bayokuxela esi senzo sibi kangaka esenzekileyo.

Usalukhumbula ugqatso olukhulu olwaluphakathi koMvundla noFudo?Kwaba lixesha elide izilwanyana zingasathethi ngenye into ngaphandle kolo gqatso lukhulu lwaluphakathi kwaba babini. Sonke siyayazi ukuba uMvundla woyiswa kuba wayesonqena kwaye ezithembe kakhulu.Siyayazi futhi ukuba uFudo lwaphumelela kuba wayecotha kodwa ezimisele. Izilwanyana zehlathi ziyakwazi noko kodwa zaqhubekeka zizihlonipha ngokulinganayo zombini ezi zilwanyana. Zombini ezi zilwanyana zasiselugqatsweni zahlala zingabahlobo. UFudo aluzange luzibone lungcono kunoMvundla ngenxa yokuba luphumelele, kwaye noMvundla, esazi ngcono ukuba woyisiwe, akazange amzonde uFudo. Kwadlula iinyanga ezininzi. Inkosi yehlathi apho kwakuhlala khona uMvundla noFudo yabanezinto ezibalulekileyo ekwafuneka ukuba izixoxe nkosi yehlathi elimelene nelo labo.Kodwa le nkosi yooFudo noMvundla yayingakwazi ukulishiya ihlathi ngaloo mzuzu. Yagqiba kwelokuba ithumele uMvundla noFudo kuloo nkosi ingummelwane ukuba babe ngabathunywa bayo. Bathi bakusabela ubizo lwenkosi yabo uMvundla noFudo inkosi yabo yabayalela isithi: “Kuyakufuneka omnye wenu aye kulenkosi isebumelwaneni.”“Ndifuna niyokuxoxa izinto ezithile ezibalulekileyo nale nkosi ingummelwane wethu. Nize nibuye nindixelele ukuba ingaba icinga ntoni le nkosi ngezi zinto ndiniyayelela zona.” “Hambani ke ngoku!” yatsho inkosi yabe sele ibaxelela ukuba bachithakale. “Kwaye nize nikhumbule ukuba ndininika usuku lube lunye kuphela ukwenza lo msebenzi.” Indlela eya kubukumnkani basebumelwaneni yayingelula kwaphela.Yayigcwele amatye nameva.Kwakukho nemilambo emibini ekwakufuneka beyiwelile ukuya kufika ebumelwaneni. Emva kokucingisisa, uMvundla noFudo bayiqonda bobabini into ukuya abanakho ukuwenza lomsebenzi umntu eyedwa.Kwakunyanzelekile ukuba bahambe kunye. Icebo labo yayikukuba uMvundla abeleke uFudo kwiindawo ezinameva apha endleleni luze uFudo lubeleke uMvundla ukuwela le milambo mibini. Kusuku olulandelayo baqokelela imiyalezo kwinkosi yabo belungiselela ukungena endleleni.UMvundla wenza amatshe kwezo ndlela zinameva lwabe uFudo lutshele emqolo lusoyika nokuwa ngenxa yamendu woMvundla. Bathi xa befika emlanjeni batshintsha izikhundla uMvundla wabelekela emqolo kuFudo. UFudo lwaluqubha ngokukhawuleza emlanjeni.Ngokukhawuleza bayiwela yomibini le milambo. Akuzange kubathathe ixesha elide ukuya kufika kubukumnkani bobumelwane. Emva kokuba bexoxe nzulu nenkosi yasebumelwaneni ngemiyalezo ababeyithunyiwe, uMvundla noFudo babekulungele ukuphindela ngemva babuyele enkosini yabo. Uhambo olubuyayo lwaba lula kakhulu kunolo babeluthathe ukuya ebumelwaneni. Kaloku ngoku bobabini babekwazi ekufanele bakwenze.Babesebenzisana kakuhle kakhulu bade bafika enkosini yabo lingekapheli nexesha ababelisikelwe!

Ngaminazana ithile, uMvundlana wawuzihambela ngasemlanjeni. UMvubu naye wayelapho, ezithele chu emane ukugramza ingca eluhlaza. UMvubu wayengaboni ukuba uMvundla ukhona nawo apha waze ngelishwa wathi gximfi enyathela unyawo loMvundla. Wasitsho isikhalo uMvundla ekwangxolisa uMvubu, “Hey wena Mvubu! Awuziboni ukuba uyandinyathela enyaweni?” Waxolisa uMvubu kuMvundla, “Ndiyaxolisa kakhulu, mhlobo wam. Andikubonanga. Yhini! Khawundixolele kaloku!” Kodwa uMvundla wayengafuni nokuva waqhubeka ungxolisa uMvubu, “Wenze ngabom nangoku! Ngenye imini, inene ndiza kukufumana, uzukhangele! Uzawuva shu nawe!” Wahamba emva koko uMvundla usiya kukhangela uMlilo, wafika wathi, “Hamba, uyotshisa uMvubu xa ephuma emanzini ezokutya ingca. Undinyathele! Waphendula uMlilo, “Ilula loo nto, Mvundla mhlobo wam. Ndiza kwenza njengokuba usitsho. Ethubeni uMvubu wabantu esazityela ingca kude le nomlambo suka kwevakala "uwushu!" UMlilo udubule waba ngamadangatye watsho ukubutshisa bonke uboya bukaMvubu. UMvubu wakhala ebaleka ukuya emanzini. Bonke uboya bakhe babutshe baphela emlilweni. Waqhubeka ekhala uMvubu, “Uboya bam butshe baphela tu emlilweni! Ubutshise bonke uboya bam! Uboya bam, uboya bam buphele bonke vuthu! Obuhle kangako bona uboya!” Yiyo loo nto iMvubu ingahambeli kude namanzi kuba yoyika ukuphinda itshiswe nguMlilo. Wavuya uMvundla xa ubona uMvubu esitshwa nguMlilo, ekhwaza esithi, “Heke, ndimfumene, ndimfume-e-ene!”

Yabayintombazana encinane eyabona umbono omangalisayo usondela. Uthe xa ukufutshane, intomabazana yabona ukuba ngumama okhulelweyo. Yathi ithandabuza injalo, yaqweba isibindi yaya kuye umama okhulelweyo. Usana lwakhawuleza ukuza emva koko. Wonke umntu wayefuna ukuncedisa. Kodwa bathi abantu bakubona usana, batsiba bonke kukothuka. "Imbhongolo?!" Baqala baphikisana. "Besithe sizomkhusela umama kunye nosana. Kufuneka senze njalo," kwatsho abathile. "Kodwa bazosiphathela amashwa!" kwatsho abanye. Wazibona eyedwa kwakhona umama. Wayexakiwe ukuba uzoluthini olusana olusisimanga kangaka. Wayengazi nokuba makazithini yena kuqala. Kodwa ekugqibeleni, walwamkela usana lwakhe. Intokunayo, ukuba usana lwaluye lwahlala luluncinci lunjalo, izinto ngezingazange zijike. UMbhongolo olusana wakhula, wakhula wade wangalingani kumama emqolo. Wathi noba ezama kangakanani, wangakwazi ukuziphatha ngendlela eqhelekileyo yabantu. Umsindo wazala ngaphakathi kuMbhongolo. Emva koko uMbhongolo wathi shu ziintloni. Wabaleka ngokukhawuleza, wemka. Ubaleke kwade kwabasebusuku, waziqonda ukuba ulahlekile. Uthe xa evuka uMbhongolo wabona ixhego angalaziyo limjongile. Walijonga naye emehlweni waziva efikelwa yintwana yethemba. UMbhongolo wahamba wayohlala nalo ixhego. Ixhego lamfundisa iindlela ngeendlela zokuphila. UMbhongolo waphulaphula, wafunda lukhulu. Nexhego nalo lafunda kuMbhongolo. Bahlala kamnandi bencedisana bonwabile. Kuthe ngenye intseni, ixhego lacela uMbhongolo ukuba aliqabelise phezu kwentaba. Bathe xa bephezulu, phakathi kwamafu, bozela balala. UMbhongolo waphupha ngathi umama wakhe uyagula, uyambiza. Xa evuka, amafu abe enyamalele nomhlobo wakhe, ixhego naye enyamalele. UMbhongolo wayazi into ekufuneka eyenzile. Wemka wayofuna umama wakhe. Wamfumana eyedwa elilela usana lwakhe olulahlekileyo. Xa bebonana, baqala ngokujongana ithuba elide. Emva koko bawolana ngamandla. Ngoku uMbhongolo, usana olusisimanga benomama sebefunde izifundo ezininzi ngendlela yokuphila kamnandi kunye. Ngokuya kusiya nezinye iintsapho nazo zithoba umxhelo.

Kudala-dala bengekabikho abantu.UMdali wayejonge ezantsikwihlabathi elihle awayelidalile.Wacinga kwelokuba abenomntuozakujonga indalo yakhe. Ingonyama yagquma, “Ndiyinkosiyehlathi, ndingalijonga ihlabathi.” Yatsho ngesandi sexilongo indlovu,“Nkosi yam, undidale ndamkhulukuzo zonke izilwanyana.Ndingoyena owufaneleyo lomsebenzi.” UMnenga, intlazi enkulu kuzo zonke iintlanzi,wajonga phezulu esibhakabhakeni watshiza amanzi,“Ingaba aba bazigqatsayo bayakwazi ukuqubhakwakunye nokubona iintlanzi, ezimibalabala,ezihamba ziligquba kwakunye nezigidi zezilwanyanaezincinane zaselwandle? Ndiyakwazi ukubonaulwandle, ndiyakwazi kanti nokuveza intloko yamngaphezu kwamanzi ndijonge ukuba kwenzeka ntoniphezu komhlaba. Ndinomzimba omkhulu, akukhonamnye onokwenza ngokuthanda kwakhe.” Ukrebe yayicinga ukuba kufunekaamazinyo wayo abukhali kuphelaukwenza loo msebenzi. Ukhozi lwahleka, “Ezi zilwanyanazikwazi ukubona izilwanyanaezisemhlabeni kuphela. UMnenganeShark zona zikwazi ukubonaizilwanyana zaselwandle kuphela.Kodwa mna ndiyabhabha,ndiyasibona isibhakabhaka,umhlaba kunye namanzi. Ndimkuphela okulungeleyo ukubangumgcini wehlabathi.” UMdali waziphulaphula ngocoselelo ezi zilwanyana,iintlanzi kwakunye neentaka. “Ndizakudala umntu,”watsho. Zonke izilwanyana zamangaliswa,yayiyintoni le nto kuthiwa “nguMntu.” Linjani ibalalayo, ingaba ineentsiba, uboya okanye amaxolookwentlanzi?Ingaba uyakubaleka okwengonyama?Aqubhe okwentlanzi?Abhabhele phezulu okoKhozi? Kwakusele kusihlwa ilanga lisiya kutshonela. Kwabasebusuku. Wagquma umdali okwesibhakabhakaebusuku, wafaka ukuphinziza kweenkwenkweziemehlweni, waza wathatha ubumnyama bamafuwenza ngabo iinwele. Wabeka amasuntswanaenyanga ekupheleni kweminwe wenza iinzipho wazawathatha nokukhazimla kweenkwenkwezi wenzangako amazinyo. Umfazi nendoda yokuqala badalwangezikhumba ezikhazimlayo ezifana nobusuku. Ngokukhawuleza baphela ubusukukwaba kusasa. UMdali wagqumangokukhanya kokusa, wathabathauhlaza lwesibhakabhaka walufakaemehlweni, wathatha umthubiwelanganga wawufaka ezinwelenikwaza phambi kwakhe kwemaindoda nomfazi abanezikhumbaezimhlophe, amehlo aluhlaza kunyeneenwele ezimthubi. Intsasa yajika kwaba semvakwemini. Ilanga lalikhazimlakakhulu, ngoko ke watsalaukukhanya okumthubi kunyenomthunzi omnyama wenza indodanomfazi abanesikhumba esimthubi,iinwele ezimnyama kunye namehloakekeleyo ukwenzela bajongeilanga. Kwakusihlwa ke ngoku, isibhakabhaka sasimthuqwasisele kuvele neekwenkwezi ezimbalwa. UMdaliwajonga ezantsi wabona ubuhle bombala womhlabaomdaka otyebileyo kunye nombala wesibhakabhakawenza ngayo isikhumba somntu. Umbala omnyamawobusuku wawusebenzisa ukwenza iinwele wazawasebenzisa ukukhazimla kweenkwenkwezi ukwenzaamehlo. Phambi kwakhe kwema indoda nomfaziabanesikhumba esingumbala omdaka, iinweleezimnyama kunye namehlo amnyama. Zamangaliswa izilwanyana zijongeesi sidalwa singaqhelekanga simangemilenze emibini, sinesikhumbaesingagqunywanga, singenaboya,iintsiba okanye amaxolo afananawentlanzi. Ingonyama yajongaezantsi kuloo mpumlo yayoyagquma, “Ndinamendu kunabokwaye ndingwabaqhwetha kubekanye ngeenzipho zam ndibabulale,uxolo UKUBA NDITSHO.” IZebra yacebisa, “Imigca embalwaingabenza babukeke.”INgwe yathi, “Namachokozaambalwa.”INdlovu yatsho ngelo xilongo layo,“Mhlawumbi bebeyakujongekangcono ngomnye umbala.” Ukrebe yajonga amazinyo wabo yancuma ibonisaamazinyo wayo abukhali. “Ah! Abanayo imisilayokuqubha, Bazakuqubha njani? Kodwa bazakujonganathi. Ha! Ha! Ha!Iintlanzi, ezinkulu nezincinane zahleka zatshozitsibela emanzini ziphelile yintsini. UMdali wahleka epholile, “Niyabona, ukuze niphile,umntu kufuneka ajonge izilwanyana, ulwandle,izityalo kunye nemithi emikhulu nemincinane. Mhlaumntu waqala ukutshabalalisa indalo ngenxayokunyoluka, naye uyakutshabalala.” Izilwanyana,iintlanzi kunye neentaka zathoba iintloko zazozinethemba lokuba ziya kukhuseleka.Ngoko ke, WENA kunye NAM, masinakekele ihlabathilethu elihle.

Kudala kwakukho indodaeyayihluphekile kunye nenkosikayiyayo. Babenomntwana omnyekuphela, intombazana, egamalinguNonkungu.UNonkungu wayemhle kwayeenobubele.Abazali bakhe babemthandakakhulu. Ngenye imini abazali bakhe bagqibakwelokuba bathumele uNonkunguayokuhlala nomalume wakheuMtonyama. Umalume uMtonyamawayeyondoda eyayifumile.Umama kaNonkungu wenzaumbhinqo owodwa ngeribhoni,amaqhosha nneentsimbi. Wenzanentsimbi yomqala entle, esenzelauNonkungu.Ngenye intsasa kwakusasa,uNonkungu wabashiya abazalbakhe esiya kumzi kamalumewakhe. Endleleni uNonkungu wafikaemfuleni.Wawuwela umfula, esebenzisaamatye okucangcatha.Kwicala elingaphesheya wadibananentombazana elula inxibeamadlakadlaka. “Uya phi na?” Yabuza intombazanaelula. “Ndiya kundwendwelaumalume wam uMtonyama,”watsho uNonkungu.“Loo nto iyammangaliso,” yatshointombazana elula. UMtonyamangumalume wam nam, kwaye namndisendleleni eya kundwendwelayena.” Yaza ke intombazana elula yathi,“Umbhinqo wakho mhle kakhulunazo iintsimbi zakho zintllengokunjalo. Nceda undivumelendizilinganise.”Ngoko ke uNonkungu wakhululaumbhinqo neentsimbi. Intombazana elula yakhululaamadlavu ayo, waza uNonkunguwabona ukuba intombazana elulainomsila. UNonkungu wayazi ngokuukuba intombazana elula ngeneneyimbulu. Woyika uNonkungu.Imbulu yanxiba umbhinqonentsimbi yomqala. WazauNonkungu wanxiba amadlavu. Bahamba kunye. Emva kokubabehambe umganyana omfutshane,uNonkungu wathi kwimbulu, “Ncedaundinike umbhinqo wam neentsimbizam.”Kha undivumele ndizinxibe sidesiyokufika kulaa mthi,” yatshoimbulu, isalatha umthi osendulini. Xa befika emthini, uNonkungu wathikwimbulu, “Nceda undinikeumbhinqo neentsimbi zam.”Kha undivumele ndizinxibe sidesifike kulaa mfula ulandelayo,”yatsho imbulu. UNonkunguwayesoyika ngoko ke wavuma. Ekugqibeleni bafika emfuleni.Kwakhona uNonkungu wabuzaimbulu, “Nceda undinike umbhinqowam neentsimbi zam.” Khaundiyeke ndizinxibe nje sidesiyokufika kulaa ndlu, apho abafazibahleli khona,” yatsho imbulu. Bazabaqhubeka behamba. Bathi bakufika endlwini, imbuluyatyhalela uNonkungu ngemva,yaza yathi kubafazi abahlelingasendlwini, “Jongani lentombazana inxibe amadlavu.Ebesoloko elandelana nam iminiyonke. Ndinqwenela ukubaahambe.”UNonkunga waba neentloninoloyiko, kangangokuba wabalekelaebuhlanti, wazimela. Yaza imbulu yaya kwindlukamalume uMtonyama yathi, “Ndingumtshana wakho, uNonkungu.Abazali bam bandithumele ukubandizokuhlala nawe.” UMtonyamawayamkela intombazana elulaeyayiyimbulu ngenene.UMtonyama nosapho lwakhebabenobubele kwimbulu kubababecinga ukuba nguNonkungu.Kodwa usizana olunguNonkungukwafuneka lulale ebuhlanti abelanenezinja ngokutya. Emini uNonkungu waya ethafenii,wacula:“Owu! Kha undisizele, ndisizele.Bendithunywe ngutata nomamaUkuba ndiyokuhlala nomalume,uMtonyama.Endleleni ndadibana nembuluyaza yathatha umbhinqo wamneentsimbi zam.Owu! Ndisizele, ndisizele.” Ngenye imini abanye abantu bayivale ngoma, baxelela uMtonyamaukuba bekukho intombazana elulaethafen,i ecule eyona ngomaimnandi nelusizi. Ngaloo mvakwemini uMtonyama waya ethafeni.Weva umntu othile ecula.Walinda emva kwesihlahla,wamamela. UMtonyama wayakwimvumi. Yayinxibe amadlavuembulu. UMtonyama wayibuza, “Ungubani,Ungumtshana wam, uNonkungu?”Waza uNonkungu wamxelela intoeyenzekileyo. UMtonyamawamthatha uNonkunguwambuyisela endaweni yakhe,wamzimelisa endlwini. UMtonyama wakhe weva ukubaumsila wembulu uyaluthanda ubisikwaye awunakulidlula ngaphandlekokusela intwana yalo. Ngoko keuMtonyama waxelela amadodaakhe ukuba ombe umjelo onzuluukuze awuzalise umjelo ngamasi. Aza onke amantombazana elaliabizelwa kwindawoyakwaMtonyama ukuya kuthathainxaxheba kugqatso lokutsiba.Intombazana nganye yayizakutsibangaphezu komjelo. Intombazanaeyayinxibe umbhinqo neentsimbizikaNonkungu yayixhalabile. Zangeifune ukutsiba phezu kumjelo.Yayisazi ukuba umsila wayo uzakunxanelwa amasi. Ngoko keimbulu yaya endlwini, yazayabophelela umsila wayo emzinjeniwayo kangangoko inako. Wazawathatha indawo yakhenjengamanye amantombazana. Ekugqibeleni yaba lithuba lembuluukutsiba. Yazama ukutsibelaphezulu ngaphaya komjelo, kodwaumsila wayo waqhawuka,waphuncuka, wayitsalela ezantsi,ezantsi, ezantsi emasini. Njengoko iduntsalaza emasini,amadoda akhawuleza azalisaumjelo ngesanti aza ayingcwabaimbulu. Yaba sisiphelo sayo. KodwauNonkungu wahlala ngokonwabanomalume wakhe ixesha elidekakhulu.Yabasisiphelo sebali.

Kwakukho ibhasi enye jwi elalilini ka-Ebei. Yayinkulu kwaye izuba ngombala. Yayingxola kakhulu. Ngenye imini umama ka-Ebei wathi, "Kusasa ngomso sizokuya edolophini siyokuthenga iyunifomu yakho." U-Ebei wavuya kakhulu. Babeza kuhamba ngebhasi enkulu ezuba ngombala. Wayengakwazi ukulala ebusuku luvuyo. Wayesele enxibile ngelixa umama wakhe engena ezokumvusa. U-Ebei nomama wakhe baya esitophini sebhasi. Balinda ibhasi enkulu embala uzuba. Kodwa ibhasi ayizange ifike. Abanye abantu bafika nabo esitophini. Babekhalaza kuba ibhasi yayingalibambanga ixesha layo. "Ingaba ibhasi isishiyile?" Babebuza. U-Ebei wakhathazeka. "Asizukwazi ukuya edolophini. Asizukwazi ukuyokuthenga iyunifomu yam," wacinga. Abanye abantu bajika babuyela emakhaya. Kodwa u-Ebei wayekhala engafuni ukuya ekhaya. Umama wakhe wamthuthuzela wathi, "Siza kuqhubeka silinde." Ngokukhawuleza beva ingxolo. Babona uthuli emoyeni. Yayisiza ibhasi! Kodwa ibhasi yayingekho zuba. Yayingekho nkulu. Le bhasi yayibomvu yaye incinane. Abantu ababelindile bayijonga nje ibhasi. Abazange bakhwele. "Ngenani! Ngenani!" wakhwaza umqhubi Waphinda wathi, "Sishiywe lixesha namhlanje. U-Ebei nomama wakhe bangena kuqala. Ngomzuzwana wonke umntu wangena ebhasini ebomvu encinane. U-Ebei wajonga phandle ngefestile. Wabona abanye abantu abaninzi esitophini. Abanye abantu abaninzi babebaleka beleqa ukukhwela ibhasi. Kodwa babesele beshiywe lixesha. Ibhasi yayisele igcwele. Ibhasi ebomvu yahamba yaya edolophini. "Iphi ibhasi enkulu ezuba ngombala?" Kwabuza umama ka-Ebei. "Yonakele," waphendula umqhubi. "Siyayilungisa, iza kuba khona ngomso," watsho umqhubi. U-Ebei wayengenaxesha lombala webhasi. Wayengenaxesha lobukhulu bebhasi. Wayevuyiswa kukuba wayesiya edolophini.

Ilanga laligqats' ubhobhoyi kwihlathi elomileyo. Kwakusele kuziintsuku ezininzi imbovane encinane ingawaseli amanzi. "Ndidinga ithontsi lamanzi nokuba liwa egqabini." Kodwa nombethe wawusele womile. "Ukuba andiseli manzi ngoku, ndiza kufa," yatsho imbovane encinane inyembezana. "Kufuneka ndiye kula mlambo bendive ngawo." "Umlambo uza kumka nawe," watsho unomatse okrelekrele eyilumkisa. Kodwa yayomile lunxano imbovane encinane. "Ndiza kufa ukuba andiseli manzi ngoku." Imbovane encinane yahamba isiya kukhangela loo mlambo. Yahamba yahamba idlula kwingca eyomileyo nakumahlahla awomileyo. Yahamba yade yeva ukugwinkciza kwamanzi omlambo. Imbovane encinane yathatha ithamo lamanzi ixesha elide. Ngendlela eyayivuya ngayo ayizange ilibone iliza elikhulu lamanzi elalisiza. Imbovane yazama ukubambelela emcingeni owomileyo wengca owawudlula ngakuyo. Kodwa yemka namanzi. "Ndincedeni bantu. Khanindincede." "Khawuleza, bambelela apha," latsho ihobe elimhlophe liphethe ikhuni ngomlomo.  "Andinakuhamba ndingekalibuleli ihobe. Ndiza kulinda lide lize kusela amanzi." Ngenye imini isalindile njalo, kwafika amakhwenkwe amabini emlanjeni ephethe iiketi zawo. "Kukho ihobe elikhulu elimhlophe elidla ngokuza kusela amanzi apha," yatsho enye inkwenkwe. "Siza kutya lona ngale ngokuhlwa."  "Andinakuwavumela la makhwenkwe alibulale eli hobe limhlophe. Kodwa njengokuba ndimncinane kangaka nje, ndingenza ntoni?" Kanye ngelo xesha ihobe elimhlophe labhabha lisuka emthini lisiya kusela.  Imbovane encinane yavela necebo. Yatsibela unyawo lwenye yala makhwenkwe, yaza yalithi nkxii kanobom. Le nkwenkwe yaxhuma. "Yhoo!" yakhwaza isitsho. Ihobe elimhlophe lothuka laza labhabha lisiya kwindawo ekhuselekileyo. Yaba ke ngolo hlobo imbovane encinane ibulela ihobe elimhlophe ngokuyihlangula.

Kudala-dala, izilwanyana zazingenayo imilenze. Zazirhubuluza emhlabeni. Yayingabantu kuphela ababenemilenze ngoba uMaguru wayebaphe yona. Ngenye imini uMaguru wagqiba ekubeni aphe zonke izilwanyana imilenze. Wazula ilali yonke ekhwaza ngombhobho. Wayefuna isilwanyana ngasinye sikwazi ukuhamba njengomntu. Zavuya izilwanyana zakuva ukuba ziza kuphiwa imilenze. Isilwanyana ngasinye sasifuna imilenze ukuze sikwazi ukuhamba nokubaleka. Zacula, zatshikizisa imisila, zabhakuzisa neempiko zazo. Zahlangana izilwanyana zaxoxa ngobunzima bokurhubuluza ngesisu xa zihamba. Umhlaba wawuzikrwempa izisu zazo. Imilenze yayiza kuzinceda ukuba zikwazi ukuma zibone kude, njengabantu. Lwathi xa lufika usuku lwemilenze yamahala, izilwanyana ezininzi zarhubuluza zaya emzini kaMaguru ukuyokwamkela imilenze yazo. Iindlulamithi, iingonyama, iindlovu, imivundla, iingwenya, neentaka zema emgceni zilinde ukuphiwa imilenze. Isilwanyana ngasinye safumana imilenze emine, zaze zona iintaka zafumana imilenze emibini inye. Zabonakala zinomahluko izilwanyana ngelixa sele zinemilenze. Ezinye zagida luvuyo. Ezinye zazibhadazela ziphinde ziwe zisenziwa bubunzima bokuhamba ngeenyawo. Zahamba-hamba elalini zibonisa abantu imilenze yazo. Zonke izilwanyana zathi, "Soze siphinde sirhubuluze." Isilwanyana sokugqibela ukufumana imilenze yayinguSongololo. UMaguru wabuza, "Ukhona olandela emva kwakho?" "Hayi, ndingowokugqibela," waphendula uSongololo. UMaguru wacinga, "Kulungile ke, xa kungasekho mntu, ndiza kuyenzani yonke le milenze eshiyekileyo?" UMaguru wanika uSongololo yonke imilenze eshiyekileyo. USongololo wahamba evuya kakhulu ngoba wayefumene imilenze emininzi. "Ndiza kuhamba ngokukhawuleza ke ngoku kunazo zonke izilwanyana," wacinga njalo. Mzuzwana nje emkile uSongololo, kwafika uNyoka emzini kaMaguru. "Maguru, ndicela undiphe imilenze," wacenga uNyoka. "Sendiphise ngayo yonke imilenze. Wena ubuphi kanti?" wabuza uMaguru. "Ndiselwe," waphendula uNyoka. UMaguru wakhangela endlwini yakhe ejonga ukuba yayingekho na eseleyo. Kodwa akazange afumane nomnye. UMaguru waphuma wathi, "Ndiyaxolisa Nyoka, akukho milenze ishiyekileyo." UNyoka warhubuluza wabuyela ekhaya engenayo imilenze. Ukusukela loo mini uNyoka akalali kakhulu. Usoloko elindele usuku apho naye aza kufumana ngalo imilenze.

Kudaladala, kwahlala indoda eyayinezinto ezininzi- ifama enkulu etyebileyo ineenkomoiigusha neebhokhwe. Kodwa, njengoko yayikhula isiba ndala, yakhulelwa kukungonwabi,kuba yayinye into eyayingekho. Yaye ingenankosikazi. Ime phantsi komthi ngenye imini,yaba nengcinga elungileyo. Ukubaayide iyifumane inkosikazi,mhlawumbi ingazenzela. Ngoko ke yathathisa ukusebenzaibumba umfazi omhle esebenielomeleleyo lomthi. Yakuqgibaukuwenza umfanekiso oqingqiweyoyambamba amehlo aze avuleka.Wavuthela kancinane kuye, waphila. Ngenene wayengoyena mfazi mhleeyakhe yambona. Yaguqa phambikwakhe, yamcela ukuba abeyinkosikazi yakhe. Yampha ifasikoti enemibalaemininzi, iintsimbi neringi yentloko,uphawu lomfazi otshatileyo. Kwayeyamakhela indlu yodaka nengcaeyayidla ngokulala emazanzi esiqusomthi. “Inye kuphela intoendiyicela kuwe,” yatshokunkosikazi yayo. “Ungaze uxelelenabani na apho uvela khona.” Kodwa, phambi kokuba kubekudala, amadoda amancinaneasuka kwilali ekufutshane baqalabathethana phakathi kwabo.“Kwenzeka njani na ukuba indodaendala ngolu hlobo ibe neyonankosikazi intle?” Ngoko ke baqgibakwelokuba bayibe ukuze bayithathebayise kubuhlanti babo. Indoda endala yayinentliziyoekhathazekileyo. Yaziva ingenakhoukuphila ngaphandle kwakhe.Kodwa ke yacinga, “Mhlawumbiukuba ndinento yakhe,andinakuziva ndilusizi?” Ngoko keyathumela amahobe ayo ukubaamfumane, amculele nizise intoyakhe kuye. Bakumfumana, bamculele ngolwimilweentaka:Nkosikazi yomthi, nkosikazi yomthi,Umhle ngaphezu kwakhe nabani naUmyeni wakho usithumile ukubasize nefasikoti yakho! Wabanika ifaskoti yakhe, baze babhabha phezu kwentaba, phezu komlambo, emva kumyeniwakhe. Wayibamba ifasikoti ebusweni bakhe, wakhe wathuthuzeleka okwethutyanaelincinane. Kodwa ukumkhumbula zangekuphela. Waza kwakhonawathumela amahobe akhe ukubaamculele: Nkosikazi yomthi,nkosikazi yomthi, umhle ngaphezukwakhe nabanina. Umyeni wakhousithumile ukuba sizise iringi yakhoyentloko!Baza baphinda babhabha neringiyentloko, uphawu lomfaziotshatileyo. Yayibamba iringi yentloko,yaphefumlela inkosikazi yayokakhulu, ekude ebuhlanti babanyeabantu.Emva kwethutyana yabiza amahobeakhe kwakhona.Yiyani kuye nicule,Nkosikazi yomthi, nkosikazi yomthi,Umhle kakhulu kunaye nabaninaUmyeni wakho usithumiee ukubasibuyisa ubomi bakho kwakhona! Ngoko ke, bahamba ithubalesithathu.Bathi ngcu emagxeni akhe,njengoko becula, intaka nganyeyanqola iliso. Ngokukhawulezayajika kwakhona yabangumfanekiso oqinqgiweyo. Iinyawozakhe neengalo zawa phaya.Kwalandela intloko yakhe.Yaza yawa emhlabeni. Umyeni wakhe wasisongangokucotha isiqu sakhe seplangaemlanjeni.Wammisa nengcambu zakheemanzini.Esondliwa lilanga nomhlaba. wamilaamaqgabi kwakhona. Xa umoya uvuthuza amaqgabiaphefumula phezulu.Njengokuba umfazi esenza xaekhumbula umyeni wakhe.

Sonke siyayazi into yokuba indlovu inomboko omde. Kodwa kudala umboko wendlovu wawumfutshane kakhulu futhi utyebile okwesihlangu esibekwe ebusweni bayo. Wawuyimpumlo nje eqhelekileyo. Ngenye imini kwazalwa ithole lendlovu. Lalinomdla ngayo yonke into. Lalisoloko linombuzo kwisilwanyana ngasinye. Lalilangazelela ukwazi ngendlulamthi. "Kutheni unomqala omde?" labuza kwindlulamthi. Lalilangazelela ukwazi ngomkhombe. "Kutheni uneempondo ezitsolo?" Labuza kumkhombe. Lalilangazelela ukwazi ngemvubu. "Kutheni unamehlo abomvu nje?" Labuza kwimvubu. Kanti lalilangazelela KAKHULU ukwazi ngengwenya. ''Ingwenya itya ntoni ngesidlo sangokuhlwa?'' "Ungakulinge uphinde ubuze umbuzo onjalo!" watsho umama walo. Waze wahamba engatyhilekanga. Kodwa ngokukhawuleza kwafika uNomyayi owayekrelekrele wathi, "Ndilandele siye emlanjeni. Apho uza kutsho ubone ukuba ingwenya itya ntoni ngesopholo." Ngenene ithole lendlovu lalandela unomyayi ukuya emlanjeni. Lazinyanzela ezingcongolweni laze lema enyeleni yomlambo. Lajonga emanzini. Yayiphi ingwenya? "Molo," kwatsho ilitye elalingakwinyele yomlambo. "Ewe," laphendula ithole lendlovu. "Ungandichazela ukuba ingwenya itya ntoni ngesopholo?" "Goba uze ezantsi ndizokukuxelela," laphendula ilitye. "Yehla, yehla, kwakhona." Ngenene ithole lendlovu lagoba, lehla, laphinda lehla laze. "Xhakamfu!" Impumlo yethole lendlovu yabe sele isezindlathini zengwenya. "Ingwenya iza kutya wena ngesopholo!" Wakhala watsho unomyayi. Ithole lendlovu laxhathisa ngemilenze yalo yangemva eqinileyo, latsala, latsala, latsala. Kodwa ingwenya ayatsho ukuliyeka. Impumlo yethole lendlovu yanwebeka, yanwebeka, yanwebeka laze. "Dudlu!" lawa labetheka ngomqolo. Ngokudikwa kukuphuncukwa sisidlo, ingwenya yatshona phantsi kwamazi. Ithole lendlovu lajonga impumlo yalo. Kodwa lalingakwazi ukubona apho yayiphela khona! Impumlo yalo yayinde kangangokuba yayinokukwazi ukukha iziqhamo emasebeni aphezulu emithi. Impumlo yalo yayinde kangangokuba yayinokukwazi nokuhlamba umqolo walo ngamanzi. Ukusukela ngaloo mini, zonke iindlovu zaba nemiboko emide eluncedo.

Yayiyeyona mvakwemini eshushu kakhulu ngoMgqibelo kuDisemba. Wonke umntu wayequmbile. "Bontle noMpho noLerato phumani phandle niyokudlala!" Umama watsho kuthi. "Andinifuni endleleni yam." Sabaleka saphuma endlwini. "Masiyeni emlanjeni," watsho uLerato. "Kupholile phaya." "Kodwa utata wasixelela ukuba singaqubhi emlanjeni," watsho uBontle. "Asiz'ukuqubha," waphendula uLerato. "Siza kudlala nje emthunzini ecaleni kwamanzi." Kodwa ukudlala 'ulibeke' ngumsebenzi obilisayo, nokuba uphantsi kwemithi ecaleni komlambo. Okokuqala sakhulula izihlangu zethu. Kodwa sasiseshushu. Saza sakhulula iziketi neeblawuzi. Kodwa sasiseshushu. Safaka iinyawo zethu emlanjeni ukuzipholisa. Saza satshizana, ngokukhawuleza saba manzi tixi ngamanzi. "O-o! Yizani! Masiqubheni," watsho uMpho. "Utata akasoze ayazi." Saqubha, saqubha, salibala ngexesha. Ilanga laqalisa ukuya ezantsi, saziva sigodola. Zaziphi iimpahla zethu? Sakhangela phantsi kwemithi. Sakhangela emahlahleni. Sakhangela kwindawo yonke. Kwakukho iimazi zeenkomo kufutshane nomlambo, zonwabele ingca enambithekayo. UBontle wajonga phezulu, "Jonga kulaa mazi yenkomo! Yintoni esemlonyeni yayo?" "Itya intyantyambo ebomvu," wakhwaza uMpho. "Yiblawuzi yakho!" Saza sajonga kwenye imazi yenkomo. Ihlafuna into eblowu. "Sisiketi sam!" watsho uBontle. Saya ekhaya ngeepenti zethu, siqhaqhazela. Kodwa ingasukuba kwakupholile. "Yayiziimazi zenkomo," Sakhala. "Iimazi zenkomo zitye impahla zethu." Kodwa umama ngaba wasikholelwa? Ngokukhawuleza imizimba yethu yaba shushu kakhulu. Kwaye obo bushushu babungaveli elangeni.

Ngolunye usuku, u Anansiisicabucabu wavuna amadumbeengadini yakhe. Abemahle,emakhulu futhi, wase ewathosaemlilweni. Ngemva kokuwathosa,wahlala phansi elungela ukuwadla. Ngemva nje kokuluma kanye, uAnansi wezwa kukhonaongqongqozayo emnyango.“kungaba ubani lowo?”, kucabangau Anansi. Wavula umnyango.bekunguFudu, ebukeka ekhathelekakhulu. Wathi, “ Anansi, ngicelaungingenise. Ngihambe ibangaelide, ngakho ngikhathele futhingifile indlala. Ubengabuyeenzenjani u Anansi kunokuvulela uFudu? U Anansi ubenomhobholo, engafunuukupha noma ubani omunye ukudlakwakhe, ngakho weza necebo elibi.Uma u Fudu ehlala phansi etafuleniethi udla idumbe, u Anansiwamnqanda. Wathi “Fudu, izandlazakho zingcolile! Awukwazi ukudlangezandla ezingcolile. Hambauyozigeza.Izandla zika Fudu bezingcolengempela, ngakho wahamba wayaemfuleni eyozigeza. Ngesikhathi u Fudu esaye emfuleni,uAnansi wasala ephanga wonkeamadumbe, wawadla wawaqeda.UFudu wabuya asephele wonke.uFudu wabuka u Anansi.“Ngiyabonga ukungimemaesidlweni sakusihlwa. Zizweukhululekile ukungena endlini yaminoma nini lapho useduze, ukuzengizokwenza okufanayo kuwena.UFudu wase ephindela endliniyakhe. Sahamba isikhathi. U Anansiwacabanga ngesethembisoesasenziwe u Fudu sokumenzelaukudla kwakusihlwa. Ngakho wayakwa Fudu ngolunye usuku.U Anansi wafika endlini ka Fudungaphambi nje kwesidlo sakusihlwa,ilanga selishona ngasemfuleni. UFudu wayelele ngomhlane ethameleilanga ukuze afudumale, njengobakwenza zonke izimfudu. Lapho uFudu ebona u Anansi, wathi “Sawubona Anansi. Uzodlanami isidlo sakusihlwa?” waphendula ngokushesha uAnansi wathi“Yebo. Ngingakujabulela kakhulu lokho.” Ubesezizwa elambengempela. Wangena ekujuleni komfula uFuduukuze adeke itafula alungise konke.U Anansi ubelokhu elindilengaphandle kwamanzi.Washeshe wabuya u Fudu wathi “OhAnansi, sekulungile konke manje.Ngicela uze sizodla isidlo sakusihlwamanje. Wabuyela emanzini uFudu,waqala ukudla amahlamvu aluhlazaayewadekile. U Anansi wazama ukungenaekujuleni kwamanzi ukuze adleisidlo sakusihlwa no Fudu, kodwaizicabucabu azikwazi ukubhukudazingene ekujuleni kwamanzi.Wayelokhu ezama, kodwa ehlulekanje ukufinyelela lokuya kudla. Ekugcineni, u Anansi weza neceboebelizomusiza angene ekujulenikwamanzi. Wathatha amatshe,wawafaka ejazini lakhe ukuzeamnike isisindo ebese engenaekugcineni kwamanzi. Akeveehlakaniphile!Walibona itafula, ligcwele ukudlaokuconsisa amathe okwehlaesiphundu. Welula isandla u Anansi, ethiuthatha ukudla. Wamnqandangokushesha u Fudu, wathi “Anansi,ngeke udle ufake ijazi. Akusiyoindlela esenza izinto ngayo leyolapha.Waphendula u Anansi wathi“Uqinisile Fudu, bengicabanganinje? Walikhumula ijazi lakhe. Ngaphandle kwejazi lakhe, u Anansiwayengasakwazi ukuhlala ekujulenikwamanzi, wabuyela phezulu.Wadumala kakhulu u Anansiesebukele u Fudu edla konkeukudla.

Ngihlala kakuma dolobhana ,indawoeshisayo kakhulu,eyomile , egcweleizihlahla ezinameva , nezimbuzingaphezu kwabantu. Ngisho indawoemakethe yethule, zimbalwa njeizitolo ezincane. Abantu abaningibasebenzisa amabhayisekilinjengezokuthutha. Ngolunye usuku ekuseni umama wangibizawathi“Etabo, namuhla uvula iminyaka eyisithupha ubudalasinesipho sakho"."Kwenzenjani? Kuyini?" Ngabuzangokulangazela."Kusasa sizo hamba ngebhasi emakethe Eldoret,”Waphendula: “Futhi sihamba nawe!Ngivakasha okokuqala kuleli dolobha! Ngangi jabulekangangokuthi Ngahluleka ukulala ngalobobusuku. Ngakusasa ngesikhathi sime laphokuma khoma ibhasi, ngemaphakathikukamama nomamncane wamingigcoke ibhokadi yami entshayombala luhlaza nesikipaesingumbal obomvu.Ngazizwa ngimcane kakhuluphakathi kuka mama wami omudefuthi emncane no anti wamiokhuluphele. Ibhasi laligcwele kakhulu,kwafuneka ngihlale phezulukwethanga likamama.Ngikhathelwe ukushisa nenjabulo,ngilele indle yonkhe angibonangalutho. Ilanga laliphuma uma sifika eEldoretemakethe.Emnyango kwakunomfazi owaye ngumuntuwesifazane odayisa izinhlamvu. Laphaya ekhonenikwakukhona amadoda amabili azilungiselelaukukhipa amazambane wabo amnandi.Laphaya kwenye ikhona kwakunowesifazaneomfishane ephethe Ihelicopter ecwebezelayongombala luhlaza.”Umama, umama, ubhekenihelicopter!" Kodwa wangidonsa. Phakathe kwemakethe, kwakukhona isibaya esikhulubathengisa izinhlobo ezahlukene zezithelo. Ezinyeangikaze ngazibona phambilini.“Yini lezi zithelo?” Ngibuza umama: “Leziamawolintshi, futhi lawa amaguava.Ngajika ngathi “lokhu?” Kuzozonke izithelo kwisibaya,Ngithande ama apula kakhulu.Ngangithanda isimo sawo nombala.Ngazibuza ukuthi anambithekakanjani besengakangeni.Ngajikela kumama ngathi“ungangithengela elilodwa?” Lapho nje wanginikela apula,ngayeka isandla sikamama ,ngathatha lesithelongezandlazombili , futhi kancanesingene inyama enamanzi .Ngangingakaze ngathanda isithelongendlela ingi thande lelo habhulakonke bengi khathazeke ngakokwaku lihabhula lami. Lapho ngi qeda leli-apula, ngabheka phezuluukukhuluma nomama. Kodwa wayengekho!Ngabheka sibuya khona. Kodwa yena no antibabengekho lapho.Ngabheka ngasekodla nagasencele .Kodwabebengekh ndawo ukubonakala. “Ubane umamawami” Ngibuza lezinkosikazi ezithengizaamazambane amnandi duzane. Azimbonanga.Ngacala ukukhala. Ngokuhamba kwesikhathi,owesifazane wangibambangesandla futhi kwangiyisaendaweni lapho kwakukhonanezinye izingane. Indoda enkhulungesilevu esikhulu yangibuza,“ungubani igama lahko, mfana?” “E- ta - bo," ngiphendulangehlengezela izinyembezi zami. Ngazibuza ukuthi izingane ezilaphonazo ziyazithengiswa emakethe na?Ngayeka ukukhala ngabheka ukubakukhona ozothenga lezingane.Maduzane kwafika unkisikaziezothatha ingane.“Ngizolandela name bangithathe”,ngicabanga “futhi ngeke ngiyeekhaya futhi” ngacala ukukhalafuthi. Lapho ngizwa khona lendodayesilevu esikhula ithi “Uphi uEtabo?” Ngakhala kakhulu.." Kodwa angifuni ukuhamba nawe!"ngathula . Ngayibalekela. Lapho umama no anti wamibezwaigama lami bajimela ekamelweni .“Etabo, Etabo!” Izwi engilijwayelelibiza.Kwakungumama wami. Njengoba ngisukumaukuyobambambelela kumama. Uanti wami wathi Etabo besikufunasifuna ukukunika isipho sakho.Esikhwameni esikhulu, wakhiphaihelicopter eqwebezelayo yombalablue “ngeyakho!” esho.

Kwakukhona ihlathi elimnyama.Kwakuyihlathi elikhulu elimnyama.Kunezihlahla eziningi nendledlana encane.Izilwane nezinyoni eziningi zihlala khona. Ngelinye ilanga, zonke izilwane zahlangana ndawonye, “ Uthi uzwile?”Kubuza uKhova, isikhova. “Yebo,” kusho uVovo, inyamazane enezimpondo ezimagatsha.“Ini?” Kubuza uKhalipha, unogwaja. Sinesikole esikehlathini,” kuphendula uMaqinase, inkawu.“Hmph?” kumangala uKhulu, indlovu. Hawu, kusho indlulamithi, “ Kuhle!” kukabalasa uMancane , umnenke, “Asisheshisani, sihambeni! UPholipholi, upholi wandiza. UMaqinase, inkawu yagxumagxuma isuka esihlahleni iya kwesinye.USbu, inhlwathi iphixilika ngokushesha.“Ngapha!” kumemeza uPholipholi. “Uyakwazi ukufunda?”“Ngicabanga ukuthi kubheke phansi,” kusho uMaqinase elenga egatsheni lesihlahla.“Hissssss.” kuqedela uSbu inhlwathi. “Akekho ongafunda.” Ngokushesha bonke abangane bahlanganyela ndawonye.UMudemude indlulamithi yabheka phezulu esihlahleni yathi, “Akukho muntu lapha.”UKhova wagcizelela wathi, “Akukho muntu.” UPholipholi wabacela ukubababhekisise.Ibhele uNgozi wathi, “Ngiyitholile indlu.” “Ngiwutholile ujingo,” kumemezela uMancane, umnenke.“Awani lamabholoksi?” kubuza uKhalipha unogwaja efuna ukwazi.“Yini lena?” kubuza uKhova.USbu inhlwathi yaphendula yathi, “Ngikholelwa ekutheni yipensela.” uMudemude kanye noPholipholi bathola indlu yokufundela.Babiza abanye, bathi “Bukani yini le!”Bonke bafika bephethe izikhwama zesikole.Baqala ukumemeza, “Thisha! Thisha! Uphi uthisha wethu?”Kwakungekho noyedwa owaziyo. Bezwa ukubhonga. Bezwa ukubhonga okukhulu. Bezwa ukubhonga okukhuluuuu.UMancane wayenexhala. UMudemude esaba.UPholipholi wacasha emva kwebhodi.USbu kanye no Maqinase babedikile. "Ubani lo?", kusukuma uMaqinase inkawu. Akekho owakhuluma.Bonke babuka uthisha bemehlisa bemenyusa ngesineke.Base bonke babhekana. Uthisha waphenduka wabhala ebhodini elimnyama.“Gxuma,” kusho uMaqinase.“Ndiza!” kusho uPholipholi.Gqi gqi gqi kubaleka uKhulu.“Baleka, baleka, baleka ngokushesha,” kumemeza uKhalipha.“Yo,” bonke bamemeza.Ngesikhathi uthisha ephenduka kwabe kungasekho muntu endlini yokufundela.

Emandulo izinyoni zaziphilazingenayo inkosi. Langa lithizezaba nomhlangano, laphozazihlaziya ukuthi ngubaniongaba inkosi ukuze nazo zibenomholi njenganabantu.Zazibuzana ukuthi pho ubaniongaba inkosi? "UKhozi uqinile unasonesakhiwo sobukhosi." Kushoenye inyoni. "Cha ngeke uKhoziakanaso isicoco. Futhi umaememeza akazwakali kahle.""Kuncono Intshe ngoba inkulu,uma ibhonga izwakala njengane bhubesi." Kusho enye inyoni."Cha ngeke akakakwaziukundiza, inkosi yezinyonikumele ikwazi ukundiza.” "Mina ngingaba inkosi," kushoUPikoko edlalisa isisila sakhe."Ngimuhle kabi""Kodwa uyaziqhenya," kushouSikhova. "Mina nginamehloamakhulu kunazo zonkeizinyoni. Ngingaba inkosi.” "Changeke ube yinkosi wenaSikhova angithi uyalala umasekusa!” Zonke izinyonizimphikisa. Zathi zisaqhubeka nenkulumo,enye yezinyoni yeza nombonowokuthi okuncono akundizwe.Lowo oyondizela phezulukakhulu nguye oyoba inkosiyezinyoni.Zavumela phezulu zonkeizinyoni, zabe sezindiza ziyaphezulu esibhakabhakeni. UHansi wandiza usuku olulodwanje wandizela phezu kwezintabaeziphakeme zakuleyo ndawo.Kanti uKhozi wandizela phezukwezintaba eziluhlaza izinsukuezimbili. Kodwa uLinqewandizela phezulu izinsukuezintathu engami, eqonde nqgoeduze kwelanga. Esandizela phezuluuLinqe,kwezawakala ememezaethi "Ngiphezulu ngiyinkosi! " Khona manjalo phezu kwakheweza izwi elincane , "Tink, tink,tink! Ngiphezulu ngiyinkosi.”Kwabe kuyinyoni encaneuNcede.Phela wayecashe ngaphansikwephikokazi likaLinqengesikhathi endizela phezuluesibhakabhakeni! "Ngeke usangehlula,” kushouLinqe esho endizela phezulufuthi. Wandiza wazewaphelelwa amandla. Waphindawamemeza wathi "NgiphezuluNgiyinkosi yenu.” Kodwa ngaphansi kwephikolakhe kwakusacashe uNcede.Waphuma uNcede, "Tink, tink!Tink, tink! Yimina inyoniencane, ngiyinkosi." KodwauLiqe wabe ekhathele ukubawayesangandizela phezulu. Wandizela phansi bandla kodwauNcede wayesacashe phansikwephiko lakhe. Ezinye izinyonizazimthukuthelele kabi uNcede.Zazimlindele ukuthi mayefikanje zizomcutha zonke izinsibanazakhe. Kodwa inyoni encane yakubonaukuthukuthela kwezinyoni.Ngokushesha yehla yangenaemgodini ongenaluthowenyoka. Izinyoni zathi kuSikhova,” WenaSkhova ngoba unamehloamakhulu, qapha uNcedeumbambe uma ephuma."Ngempela uSikhova wahlalaphambi komgodi waqapha. Kodwa emini ilangaselifudumele uSikhovawafikelwa ubuthongo walala.Inyoni encane uNcedewalunguza wabona uSikhovaelele, ngokushesha wanyenyawabaleka. USikhova waba namahloningakwenzile, ukudedelauNcede. Kusukela ngalelolangauSikhova waqala ukuzingelaebusuku,emini uyalala acasheleukubonwa ezinye izinyoni.

Elinyilanga kwakukhona umndeniababehlala emzaneni. Abazali kulomndeni neba vuka ekuseni njaloekuseni, ukusebenza emasimini.Zayishiya umntwana nendodanayabo endala, uSipho ngubanieyishumi ubudala, futhi indodakaziyabo endala uBulelwa,owayeneminyaka eyishumi nambiliubudala. Izingane zakhe ezindalanebathanda ukudlala ngaphandleemini kanye babekhohliwe ukwenzaindlu yabo yasendlini.Abafana nebathanda ukudlalaibhola Amantombazane nebathandaukudlala nge onodoli emhlabeniegcekeni. Bakhohlwa mayelananginakekela ingane lapho abanganebaba bafiga. Umntwana akhala,akhala akekho weza. Elinyilanga izingane zabekaumntwana ngaphasi kwesihlahlaemthunzini phezu kwenguboegqamile ebomvu. Bahamba bayodlala. Ingane yaqala ukukhalaevamile.Iqembu iNdwa landizelangaphezu enkundleni yezemidlalokanye wahawukela ikhala.Zazama ukuthola abantwanaukuqaphela ukuthi inganewayememeza kodwa abantwanabaqhubeka ukudlala. IziNdwazanquma ukuthatha ingane besebaikhulisa bona. iNdwa ezine zilamukele zizolanda umntwana ngaphansikwesihlahla. iNdwa ngamunye yathatha ekhoneni ngegubokomntwana waphakamisa umntwana phezulu bese zandiza.Izingane abazange bakuqaphele lutho goba kade badlala bamtasa.Abazali yezingane nebasebenza kanzima elangeni elishisayo Bekhushisa kakhulu kangangokubaumama wanquma ziphumulengaphansi kwesihlahla. Nakubayena ephumule ezwa umntwanaekhala. Yena waqalaza akwazi lutho.Wabe asabheka phezulu wabona iziNdwa ezine ezindizayo ziphetheumnthwanakhe engubeni ebomvu.Wathethisa futhi wazisukela iziNdwaLapho owesifazana etshela umyeniwakhe lokho ebona akazangeakholelwe wakhe. IziNdwa zafihla usana phakathikomhlanga sokuvikela. Babefunaukuthola umndeni omushawayeyobanakekela umntwana.Bathi badlisa walibeka ukulala. Basebandiza bayo funa ukudla okuningi.Umntwana babelele isikhathi esidengaphandle ekhala. Laphoumntwana waphaphama kwaqalabekhala ngoba kwabe alambile. . Ixoxo wacabanga ukuthi iziNdwaabantshontshe umntwana, futhiwanquma ufihle ingane kusukelaiziNdwa.Kungazelelwe ixoxo wezwaizwi iziNdwa. Kwakungekhonesikhathi sakufihla. Ixoxokugwinywe umntwana wacashaiMbila.Lapho iziNdwa befika bathi abasoukuthola umntwana futhi landizelaayofuna kuwo. Ixoxo ezitshakaduleemuva umntwana ekhaya Kwaba umdeni wemntwana ehleziebusuku kabi kungazelelwe ixoxowagxumela ngomyango. Ixoxowabatshela ukuthi khinsa kanjaniingane yabo. Bacela isele ukuzeabanikele ingane.“Ngiphe izimpukane ezithathuukubangidle ngizokunika umntwana”,wathi ixoxo. Ubaba wabambaizimpukane ezithathu wabandlakuze ixoxo. Ixoxo yakhohlola futhiumntwana kanye. Ixoxo wagxumafuthi umdeni wasina ngenjabulo.

Kudala, esigodini saseNtabanhle, kwakunendoda eyanesilonda esibi emlenzeni. Lesi silonda sasinenkani ukuphola. Le ndoda yayingasakwazi ukuma nanokuhamba ngenxa yalesi silonda. Yayihlala nomndeni wayo, unkosikazi nabantwana. Babenamadodana amathathu nendodakazi eyodwa. Igama lendodakazi kwakunguNolwazi. Kwabe kungumsebenzi wakhe ukunakekela ubaba wakhe. Amadodana ayesebenza emasimini futhi elusa imfuyo. UNolwazi wayeyintombazane enhle. Wonke umphakathi wawumkhonzile futhi umhlonipha. Abazali bakaNolwazi babemfisela umyeni oqotho nonakekelayo. Loyo owayezoba ngumyeni kaNolwazi wayezobhekana nesu elinzima. Leyo ndoda eyayizomthatha abe unkosikazi wayo, kwakumele ihambe iyokhipha ikhambi echibini elaliseduze khona esigodini. Kwakunenkolelo ukuthi leli khambi lalizokwelapha isilonda sikayise kaNolwazi. Inkinga ngechibi, kuthiwa lalinemimoya emibi futhi eyingozi. Amanye amadoda ayeseke azama ukuyothatha leli khambi ayebuya engaliphethe. Amanye ayengabuyi kwakhona echibini lapho. UNolwazi yayimkhathaza le ndaba. Abafowabo babengalokothi baye kuleli chibi. Wagcina enqume ukuthi yena Nolwazi, uzoya kuleli chibi ayothatha leli khambi. Ngelinye ilanga umama wakhe wathi kuye, "Mntanami, amadoda anamandla ehlulekile, wena bewungubani ukuyolanda leli khambi?" UNolwazi wayesezitshelile ukuthi yena uzohamba. Endleleni eya echibini, wahlangana nesalukazi sithwele umyaba wezinkuni. UNolwazi wasisiza wasithwalisa. Sabonga isalukazi, sathi kuye, "Lalela kahle. Ngizokutshela ukuthi uzofinyelela kanjani ekhambini, nanokuthi kumele wenzeni lapho ufika echibini." Uma efika eduze nechibi, uNolwazi, wawubona lomndeni wemimoya evunguzayo idansa iphuza echibini. Wema wayibukela. Emva kwesikhashana ngayinye yashona phansi yalala. Kuthe seyilele yonke, UNolwazi waziphonsa echibini, walithola ikhambi. Ngesikhathi esephuma emanzini, amanzi ayesemaningi ngakuye lapho eyozophumela ngakhona. Kwathi lapho ephumela ngaphandle, nansi imimoya seyivukile. Wafikelwa ukwesaba, wabe esekhumbula ukuthi isalukazi sasithe akabocula iculo ayemfundise lona, ayilolozele le mimoya. Iculo lalithi: "Mina ndodakazi yaseNtabenhle, ngivela lapha echibini nami. Ngize lapha ukuzocela ikhambi lenu babusi bami. Ubaba wami uyalidinga ukwelapha isilonda sakhe esingapholi. Ngisizeni babusi bami." Izwi likaNolwazi lalimnandi ngokumangazayo, imimoya yacela ukuba aphinde acule futhi. Nangempela waphinda. Ukucula kwakhe kwayilolozela imimoya, thu thu! Yalala. Ngokushesha uNolwazi wahlaba ngejubane ebheke ekhaya. Wafika ekhaya, elindelwe. Bonke babemangele. Wangena endlini, wasebenzisa ikhambi, ubaba wakhe welapheka, wavuka wema ngezinyawo. Umphakathi wonkana wawujabule uncoma isibindi sikaNolwazi.

Emandulo amantombazane amathathu ahamba ayotheza. Ilanga lalishisa kakhulu base behlela emfuleni ukuyobhukuda. Badlala, bethelana ngamanzi ngesikhathi bebhukuda. Kusenjalo babona ukuthi isikhathi sase sihambile. Baphuthuma bephindela emakhaya. Bathi sebesondele emakhaya, uNozibele wazithinta emqaleni wathola ukuthi umgexo wakhe wawungekho. Wayewukhohliwe! “Ngicela ningiphelezele bandla!” ebancenga. Kodwa abangane bakhe bathi sekuhlwile. UNozibele waphindela yedwa emfuleni. Wawuthola umgexo wakhe waphuthuma ephindela ekhaya. Kodwa endleleni waduka ebumnyameni. Buqamama wabona ukukhanya okwakuqhamuka endlini. Washesha wayakhona, wafika wangqongqoza emnyango. Wamangala kakhulu ukuthi kwavula inja, yathi “Ufunani la?" “Ngidukile ngicela indawo yokulala,“ kusho uNozibele. “Ngena ngaphakathi, ngale kwalokho ngizokuluma!”,kusho inja. UNozibele wangena ngaphakathi. Inja yathi, “Ngiphekele!” “Kodwa angikaze ngiyiphekele inja,” kuphendula uNozibele. “Phela ngale kwaloko ngizokuluma!“ kusho inja. UNozibele wayiphekela inja. Inja yathi, “Ngindlalele umbhede!" Nozibele wathi, “Angikaze ngendlalele inja." “Ndlala ngale kwaloko ngizokuluma!",kusho inja. uNozibele wawendlala umbhede. Zonke izinsuku wayepheka, ashanele, futhi ayiwashele inja. Ngelinye ilanga inja yathi, “Nozibele, namhlanje ngizovakashela abangane bami. Shanela la endlini, upheke bese uwashe izingubo zami ngaphambi kokuba ngibuye.” Isikhashana nje inja isihambile, uNozibele wathatha izinwele ezintathu ekhanda lakhe. Wabeka unwele olulodwa ngaphansi kombhede, wabeka olunye unwele emva kwesivalo, wabeka olunye esibayeni. Wase wabaleka waya ekhaya ngokushesha. Yathi inja ibuya, yafuna uNozibele. "Nozibele, ukuphi?" imemeza. “Ngilapha ngaphansi kombhede," kusho unwele lokuqala. “Ngilapha, emva kwesivalo," kusho unwele lwesibili. “Ngilapha, esibayeni,“ kusho unwele lwesithathu. Inja yavele yabona nje ukuthi uNozibele wayeyicuphile. Inja yagijima imfuna. Kodwa abafowabo kaNozibele babeyilinde nezinkulu izinduku. Inja yabaleka yaphindela emuva, ayiphindanga yabonakala kusukela ngalelo langa.

Lena yindaba yeNgede, nomfanyana owayehala uSibusiso.Ngelinye ilanga uSibusiso wayeyozingela wezwa uNgede.Umlomo kaSibusiso waqala waconsa amathe esecabanga uju.Wama wazama ukulalelisisa, wayifuna waze wayibona inyoni ihleziemagatsheni esihlahla phezulu."Chitik-chitik-chitik," Kusho inyoni encane idiniwe, indizelaesihlahleni esilandelayo, nesilandelayo."Chitik, chitik, chitik," Iqhubeka nomsindo, ihamba imaukuqinisekisa ukuthi uyayilandela uSibusiso. Emva kwesikhathi eside, bafikaesihlahleni esikhulu somkhiwane.Ingede yagxumagxumaemagatsheni. Yagcinaseyisegatsheni elilodwa yabhekauSibusiso sengathi ithi, “Nakhoke!Ulindeni?"USibusiso wayengaziboni izinyosiesihlahleni kodwa wayeyithembaiNgede. USibusiso wabeka phansiumcibisholo wakhe wokuzingelangaphansi kwesihlahla, wacoshelaizinkunyana bese wabasa umliloomncane.Ngesikhathi umlilo usuvutha kahle,wathatha ukhuni olomile walufakaenhliziyweni yomlilo. Lolukhunilwalaziwa ngokuba nentuthu eningiuma luvutha. Wagibela esihlahleni,ebambe ngamazinyo isidunuesingashisi salolukhuni Ngokushesha wezwa umsindowezinyosi zibubula. Zazingenaziphuma embobeni yesihlahla,esidlekeni sazo phela.Ngesikhathi uSibusiso efikaesidlekeni sezinyosi washuthekaukhuni oluthunyayo embotsheni.Zaphuma ngokushesha, zidiniwefuthi zididekile. Zandiza zabalekangoba zingazwani nentuthu, kodwangaphambi kokuba zibaleke zaqalezamzwisa ubuhlungu uSibusisongokumtinyela! Zathi sezibalekile, uSibusisowashutheka izandla esidlekeni.Wakhipha izandla sesigcweleikhekheba, eliconsa ujuolunamafutha, nenhlava emhlophe.Ngokucophelela wafaka ikhekhebaesikhwameni ayesiphethe besewasigaxa ehlombe, waqala wehlaesihlahleni. Ngokulangazelela, iNgede yabukayonke into eyayenziwa uSibusiso.Yayilindele ukuba uSibusisoayishiyele ikhekheba ukubongausizo lwayo.Ngokukhulu ukushesha iNgedeyasuka yahlala igatsha negatsha,iya ngokusondelela phansi.Ekugcineni uSibusiso wafinyelelaphansi.iNgede yahlala phansi etshenieduze komfana elindele ukuthiayibonge. USibusiso wacisha umlilo,wacosha umcibisholo wakhe wahambawaya ekhaya eziba inyoni.INgede yamumemeza ngokudinwa, "VIC-torr! VIC-torrr!"UGingile wama wagqolozela inyoni encane,wahleka kakhulu.“Uyalufuna uju, uyalufuna mngani wami? Ha! Imina engenzewonke umsebenzi, ngaze ngathola nokutinyeleka. Kungani kumelengikuphe uju lwami olumnandi kangaka?” Wasuka wahamba.INgede yathukuthela! "Ayikho enye into engingayenza! Kodwangizoziphindiselela." Ngelinye ilanga sekuphele amasonto ambalwa, uSibusisowaphinda wezwa umsindo weNgede. Wakhumbula loluya lujuolwalumnandi, walangazelela ukuyilandela inyoni futhi.Emva kokuba iNgede imholile uSibusiso kwaze kwaba sekuphelenikwehlathi, iNgede yama yaphumula esihlahleni sameva."Ahh," kucabanga uSibusiso. “Kufanele ukuba isidleke sikuso lesisihlahla." Ngokushesha wakha umlilo omncane waqala wanwebela,isikhuni esesibambe ngamazinyo. iNgede yama yabukela. USibusiso wanwebela, ezibuza ukuthi kungani pho engawuzwalomsindo ojwayelekile wokububula kwezinyosi. “Mhlawumbeisidleke sisekujuleni kwalesisihlahla," ezicabangela.Wadlulela kwelinye igatsha. Esikhundleni sokuthola isidlekewazithela ebusweni bengwe!Ingwe yathukuthela kabi ukuthi iphazanyiswe ebuthongweni bayo.Yavula amehlo, nomlomo yaveza amazinyo amakhulu acijile. Ngaphambi kokuba iNgwe imudle uSibusiso, wehlika ngokusheshaesihlahleni.Kulokho kushesha kwakhe wageja igatsha lesihlahla,wabhamazeka phansi, wakuquka iqakala. Waxhugeza ngakhokonke okusemandleni.Ngenhlanhla yakhe, iNgwe yayisaphethwe ubuthongo ukuthiingamusukela.Ingede kwabe sokungu kuziphindiselela kwayo.Kanti noSibusiso wafunda isifundo. Abantwana nabazukulubakaSibusiso uma bezwa indabayeNgede, bayihlonipha kakhulu.Njalo uma beyotapa izinyosibayaqinisekisa ukuthi bashiyaikhekheba lekhethelo kwiNgede!

Indawo yaseNsingweni izungezwe amagquma, amahlathi nezintaba. Zaziziningi izinyoka ezazitholakala kula mahlathi akulezi zintaba. Kwelinye lamahlathi, kwakukhona inyoka enkulu, inhlwathi, eyaze yanikwa igama kwathiwa nguMagilogilo. Le nyoka, akekho owayengayesabi, ngemikhuba yayo. Yayigwinya wena mvu, wena mbuzi. Langa limbe, uNono, uSanele noNtonjana bahamba bayotheza kuleli hlathi. Ugogo wabo wayebadonse ngendlebe wathi, "Anibobhasobha uMagilogilo. Ningathathi lutho olunye ehlathini ngaphandle kwezinkuni." Kodwa uNtonjana akalalelanga isiyalo sikagogo wabo. Amantombazane ayeziphathele umphako wobisi, wena bhanana, bhatata kanye namanzi. Bathatha nezibopho kanye nembazwana yokugawula izinkuni. Nabaya belibhekise ehlathini. Endleleni amantombazane ayehamba ezixoxela futhi ehleka. Besazixoxela kanjalo kwezwakala uNono okunguyena omdala esethithi, "Sh! Sh! Sesisondele endaweni kaMagilogilo manje." USanele waphendula ngelokuthi, "Hhayi bo! Bhekani! Sengathi amazinyo kaMagilogilo egolide nje lawa abantu abahlale bexoxa ngawo. Asizithatheleni wona." uNono washeshe wabakhumbuza, "Niyashesha ukukhohlwa. Utheni ugogo kithi? Akashongo ukuthi singathathi noma singacoshi lutho olunye ngaphandle kwezinkuni?" "Ogogo! Angikholwa mina yiloko. Ubezikhulumela nje ugogo. Mina ngiyawafuna, ngizozithathela la mazinyo. Awegolide pho! Hhayisuka! Ngiyawathatha," kuphendula iqhalaqhala elinguNtonjana. Odadewabo bakhathazeka ngesenzo sikaNtonjana, mncane kodwa akakhuzeki. Omunye wabo wezwakala esegcizelela inkulumo yabo wathi, "Ungasho njalo ukuthi asikukhuzanga." Yize odadewabo babemkhuza, akalalelanga. Ngaso leso sikhathi, memfu uMagilogilo ezobheka amazinyo akhe. Yacasuka yafa inyoka ingasawatholi amazinyo ayo. Kusenjalo, yezwa umsindo wamazwi amantombazane exoxa, egegetheka. Yacabanga ikhuluma yodwa, "Ngizobathola, bacabanga bahlakaniphile, nami-ke, ngihlakaniphile. "Yahuqazela inyoka yahamba yayocasha ngaphansi kwetshe elikhulu elaliseduze nendlela lapho amantombazane ayezodlula khona. Aqhamuka amantombazane ethwele iminyaba yezinkuni. Bezwa ngomsindo ohazayo, bathuka bazama ukucasha. Waloku uqhubekile umsindo sengathi usondela kubo. "Ssssss!" Besalalele loko, memfu! UMagilogilo phambi kwabo. Wayesephakamise ikhanda lakhe, evule umlomo elindele ukugadla. "Ngitsheleni kahle, ngubani othathe amazinyo ami egolide?" kubuza uMagilogilo ngokucasuka. Waqhubeka wathi, "Owathathile ngizomthola masinya nje. Lalelani la, nizongiculela-ke. Loyo oyocula ngaphandle kokwenza iphutha, nguye ongenacala. Futhi loyo, nguye oyoqhubeka nomyaba wakhe aye ekhaya. Kodwa-ke, loyo oyobhimba ngiyamzwela." Kwacaca ukuthi kumele acule amantombazane ukuze kubonakale onecala. Kwaqala uNono, kwalandela uSanele. Kwagcina isalakutshelwa esingu Ntonjana. Wayevevezela ukwethuka. Wathi uyaqala, izwi alangaphuma kahle, wahoshozela, namagama eyengezwakali nokuthi uthini. Kwezwakala uMagilogilo esethi, "Uyabhimba, awuzizwa?" Kwacaca enyokeni ukuthi nguye othathe amazinyo ayo. Akazange achithe isikhathi uMagilogilo, mimiliti uNtonjana. Bathathela ngejubane odadewabo bebheke ekhaya, beyobikela abadala ngokwenzekekile.

Emandulo kwakukhona intombazanyana, igama layo kunguKalabushe. UKalabushe wayeyintombanyana ekhuluma kakhulu. Umama wayo wayemxwayisile ngalokukhuluma kakhulu kwakhe. Kodwa uKalabushe akazange amlalele umama wakhe. Ngelinye ilanga uKalabushe wagulelwa ngubabekazi wakhe owayehlala kwesinye isigodi esiseduze nabo. Umama kaKalabushe wayematasatasa kakhulu ngalelo langa. Kwabe sekuyintambama lapho umama wakhe ethuma uKalabushe ukuthi ahambisele ubabekazi wakhe ogulayo ukudla. Endleleni uKalabushe wahlangana no Sgidi impisi. Eyayizishintshe yaba umuntu. Impisi yambuza ukuthi uphetheni. UKalabushe waphendula wathi, "Inyama, amaqanda nobisi." Yize umama wakhe wayemxwayisile ukuthi angatsheli muntu ukuthi uphetheni. UKalabushe watshela impisi ukuthi uhambisela ubabekazi wakhe ogulayo ukudla. Impisi yaqala ukucabanga ngenyama eyayiphethwe uKalabushe. Yagijima ngejubane elikhulu imshiya ngemuva iya kubabekazi wakhe. Impisi yafika yamgwinya ubabekazi wakhe yabe isizemboza ngengubo yakhe yokulala. Ngesikhathi uKalabushe efika kwakuthule cwaka endlini. Wangena ngaphakathi ememeza ethi, "Babekazi ukuphi?" Uma engalizwa izwi lika babekazi wakhe wangena e egumbini lakhe lokulala. Wamangala uma ebona umuntu ozemboze ngenkulu ingubo le. "Babekazi kungani unezindlebe ezinkulu kangaka?" kubuza uKalabushe. USgidi impisi yaphendula ngaphansi kwengubo wathi, "Khona ngizokuzwa kahle." UKalabushe wabuza futhi kubabekazi wakhe wathi, "Kungani amehlo akho emakhulu kangaka?" uSgidi waphendula wathi, "Khona ngizokubona kahle." Ekugcineni uKalabushe wabuza wathi, "Kungani unomlomo omkhulu kangaka namhlanje?" USgidi waphendula wathi, "Khona ngizogwinya kahle." USgidi impisi yagxuma embhedeni yamgwinya uKalabushe. Ngenxa yokuthi uKalabushe wayekhuluma kakhulu, wakhuluma noma esesiswini sempisi uSgidi. Wayebuza imibuzo eminingi. Ekugcineni uSgidi wayesekhathele imibuzo eminingi kaKalabushe wanquma ukumhlanzela ngaphandle. UKalabushe nobabekazi wakhe basindiswa abantu bendawo. Kusukela ngalelo langa uKalabushe akaphindanga wakhuluma kakhulu nabantu angabazi.

Emuzini osekwehleleni kweNtaba iKenya eMpumalanga ye-Afrika, kwakunentombazanyana eyayisebenza emasimini nomama wayo. UWangari wayekuthanda ukuba ngaphandle. Esivandeni sokudla somndeni wakhe wayelima khona umhlabathi ngegeja lakhe i-machete. Wayecindezela imbewu encane emhlabathini ofudumele. Isikhathi sosuku ayesithanda kwakungemvana kokushona kwelanga. Lapho sekumnyama kakhulu ukuthi angabona izitshalo, uWangari wayazi ukuthi sekuyisikhathi sokubuyela ekhaya. UWangari wayeyingane ehlakaniphe kakhulu futhi wayeselangazelela ukuya esikoleni. Kodwa umama kanye nobaba wakhe babefuna ahlale ekhaya ukuze abasize. Wayekuthanda ukufunda! ENyuvesi yaseMelika uWangari wafunda izinto eziningi ezintsha. Wafunda ngezitshalo nangokuthi zikhula kanjani. Wakhumbula nangokuthi wakhula kanjani: edlala imidlalo nabafowabo emithunzini yezihlahla ezinkulu emahlathini amahle aseKenya. Lapho kwanda akufundayo, wabona nokuthi wayebathanda abantu baseKenya. Wayefuna ukuba bajabule futhi bakhululeke. Lapho eseqede izifundo zakhe, wabuyela eKenya. Kodwa izwe lakhe lase liguqukile. Kwakukhona amapulazi amakhulu ayesendlaleke kulo mhlaba. UWangari wakwazi ukuthi kumele enzeni. Wafundisa abantu besifazane ukuthi batshale izihlahla ngembewu. Ngokuhamba kwesikhathi, kwakhula izihlahla ezintsha zaba ngamahlathi, kwase kuqala ukugeleza kwemifula futhi. Umlayezo kaWangari wasabalala ne-Afrika. UWangari wayesebenze kanzima. UWangari washona ngowezi-2011, kodwa sicabanga ngaye njalo uma sibona isihlahla esihle.

UNkukhu noShongololo babengabangani. Kodwa babehlala bencintisana. Ngelinye ilanga banquma ukudlala ibhola lezinyawo befuna ukubona ukuthi ubani owayengumpetha. Baya enkundleni yebhola lezinyawo basebeqala umdlalo wabo. UNkukhu wayeshesha, kodwa uShongololo wayeshesha kakhulu. UNkukhu wayelikhahlela liye kude, kodwa elikaShongololo laliya kude kakhulu, uNkukhu waqala manje ukukhononda. Banquma ukuba bakhahlele amaphenathi. Kwaqala uShongololo ukuba avimbe emagoli. UNkukhu wafaka igoli elilodwa kuphela. Emva kwalokho kwasekuba ithuba likaNkukhu ukuvika ukungena kwegoli. UShongololo wakhahlela ibhola langena ezintini. UShongololo wapheceza ejika nebhola langena. UShongololo walishaya ngekhanda ibhola langena ezintini. UShongololo washaya amagoli amahlanu. UNkukhu kwamthukuthelisa ukuthi uhluliwe. Wayengakubekezeleli ukuhlulwa. UShongololo wavele wamhleka ngoba umngane wakhe wayesexakanisekile. UNkukhu wayesethukuthele kakhulu waze waligwinya ishongololo. Kuthe uNkukhu eseya ekhaya,nwahlangana noMama Shongololo. UMama Shongololo wabuza, "Uke wayibona ingane yami?" UNkukhu akaphendulanga. UMama Shongololo wakhathazeka. UMama Shongololo wezwa izwi elincane. "Ngelekelele Mama!" kukhala izwi. UMama Shongololo waqalaza walalelisisa, izwi laliqhamuka ngaphakathi enkukhwini. UMama Shongololo wamemeza, "Sebenzisa amandla akho akhethekile mntanami!" Amashongololo akwazi ukukhipha iphunga elibi azenze anambitheke kabi. UNkukhu wazizwa efikelwa ukucanuzela kwenhliziyo. UNkukhu wagonyuluka. Wabuye wagwinya wakhafula. Wathimula, wakhwehlela kaningi. Ishongololo lalinyanyeka! UNkukhu wakhwehlela laze laphuma laqhasha ishongololo elalisesiswini sakhe. UMama Shongololo nengane yakhe banwabuzela bakhuphuka ngesihlahla bayocasha. Kusukela ngalelo langa, izinkukhu namashongololo baba yizitha.

Emandulo kwakukhona amantombazanyanaamabili ayeyizintandane, amagama awo kungoNana no Nanana. Babehlala endaweniewugwadule. Kulendawo lalomisile kungekhongisho izitshalo ukuthi badle. Babehambaibanga elide uma beyofuna ukudla UNana wayethobile, ezithulelafuthi eyintombazanyanaewusizo. Kodwa uNananawayeziqhenya, engalaleliizeluleko. Wayengenandabanabanye abantu. Bavuka ekuseni ngenye iminikungekho lutho abazoludla.Kwakufanele bedlile, ngakho kebaphuma bahamba ngezindlelaezahlukene ukuyofuna ukudla. Kwakukhona isalukazi igamalaso kungu Nobuntu. Lesalukazisasidume ngokubusisa abantubabe izigwili. Kodwa uNobuntuwayenesifo sochoko. Wonkeumzimba wakhe wawugcweleizilonda. Endleleni uNanana wahlangananalesosalukazi, sathi," kunjanimzukulu wami? Uvelaphi?Uyakuphi?" Wayiphendula yonke imibuzo.Khona manjalo isalukazi sathi,ngifukule ungihambise emziniwami ngizokutshela ukuthiungenzeleni uma sesifikile.uNanana wakhombisaukungahloniphi esalukazini. Waphendula wathi," Ngincamanokufa kunokuthi ngithintelezilonda zakhoezinyanyekayo."Sazithulelaisalukazi samfisela uhambooluhle. UNanana wahamba waze wafikaendaweni esabekayoengajwayelekile. Kuleyondawokwakukhona amasongololo,izinyoka,amacimbi nazozonkeizinambuzane ongazicabanga.UNanana wayesekhathele futhiengenamandla ngoba kwasekuyizinsuku eziningi engadli.Wathi uma ehlala phansizamthelekela izilwanyazanazamudla. Kuyona leyondlela uNana nayewahlangana naleso salukazi.Kodwa yena wajabula umaehlangana noNobuntu ngobakwabe kungumuntu wokuqalaukuhlangana naye ohambenilwakhe olunzima. Ngokunjaloisalukazi sambuza imibuzoefanayo naleyo esayibuzaudadewabo uNanana. UNana yena wavuma ukufukulauNobuntu amhambise kwakhe." Wenze lokho abaningiabahlulekayo ukukwenza,"kusho isalukazi. Khona manjaloisalukazi samnika indukusamtshela ukuthi akabuyeleekhaya, lapho eyofika kukhonazonke izinto azifisayo. UNana wajabula kakhuluwabonga esalukazini, wagijimaeqonde ekhaya. Wafika kubosekunezindlu ezinhle ezintshaezinakhokonke okuhleongakucabanga nokudlaokuningi. Waphenduka isicebiendaweni. Noma eseyisicebiakakhohlwanga udadewabouNanana , wamkhumbulangokuthi amzilele.Wayecabanga ethi, "Umaungalaleli izeluleko zabantuabadala ugcina emlonyeniwendlovu."

Kwakukhona ilizwe elikude.Abantu bakhona babehlalaezindlini ezincane behlalebejabule. Emva kweminyaka,bazithola bengathokozilengenxa yezilwane zasendleezazifika zibesabise. Lezizilwane zazifika zidleizitshalo zize zithathenabantwana abancane zibalekenabo. Kwakungasesiyo indawoephephile neze; kodwa kebabengayaphi? Umndeni owodwa wathola isulokuyohlala entabeni. Kwakululaukuthola ukudla khona. Kwakumila izitshalo phakathinamatshe.Ihlanze lamila eqeleni legquma.Kwakunonogwaja kanyenezinyoni ababengazidla. Eminye imindeni yabona ukuthibahlezi kahle laba abahlalaentabeni.“Imnandi impilo laphayaintabeni,” kusho indoda ehlalaentabeni. "Nani kumelenizohlala khona.” Ngokushesha neminye imindeniyashiya amakhaya ayoyanyukela entabeni . Umndeningamunye wathola umgede,abafika bahlala kuwobathokomala futhi baphepha. Ngokushesha izingane zabesezikwazi ukugibela amatshe,nokukha izithelo ezihlahleni.Basebekwazi ukushibekaezihlahleni njengezinkawu. Kancane kancane izintozashintsha. Izingane zangabezisakhuluma kodwa zase ziqaleukubhonga . Abazali babonanaamakhala abo ekhula, bemilanoboya. Behamba ngezandlakanye nezinyawo. Njalo uma bebukanababebonana ukuthi amazinyoabo ayakhula. Bashintsha baba izidalwaezintsha ezazingakaze zibonwe,baphenduka izimfene. Baphila kahle isikhathi esidebeyizimfene ezikhululekile.Bayeka ukugijimisa onogwajanezinyoni. Bagcina bekhohliwe nokuthi kuhanjwa kanjani. Bayekaukukhuluma nokugqoka izingubo ngoba imilenze yaboyayimide futhi inoboya obumnyama. Kodwa babesakhumbula ukuthibabengabantu. Babebukanaamakhala amade bahlekane. Loyo owayehlekwa waye gxumagxuma ukudinwa.Kwahamba isikhashanabangakwazi ukuhlala ndawonyengenxa yokuchwensana.Umndeni ngamunye wahlukana. Yingakho nje nanamuhla izimfene zingaphili njengesizwe sezimfene kodwangamaqoqana amancane.

UTasneem wayeyintombazaneenhle, futhi ugogo wakhe enomusa. Ugogo wakhe wayechitha isikhathisakhe enzela uTasneem izigegeezinhle. UTasneem wayethandaukugqoka izigege zakhe. Amanye amantombazane endaweniayenomona ngesigegesikaTasneem. Babezibuza ukuthibangamkhumula kanjani isigegesakhe. Kodwa kwakungelulaukukhumula izingubo zakhe umaezigqokile. Ngolunye usuku amantombazaneammema ukuthi bahambebayobhukuda emfuleni oseduze.Osebeni lomfula bonke bakhumulaizigege zabo ukuze zingabimanzi.Bagxumela emanzini babhukudaisikhashana. Uma sebeqedile ukubhukuda, enyeyamantombazane eyayinomonakakhulu yathatha isigegesikaTasneem yasiphonsa emanzini,eduze nendawo ehlala inyokaenkulu. Emva kwaloko wonkeamantombazane ahamba amshiyalapho ekhala uTasneem. Inyoka enkulu yezwa okhalayo,yashibilika yaphuma emanziniyabona intombazane enhle,yayigwinya kanye nesigege sayo. Ngenhlanhla inyokaayikuthandanga ukunambithekakwesigege sakhe. Yasiphimiselangaphandle kanye naye uTasneem.Bawela ngaphandle osebenilomfula, bemanziswe amatheenyoka anuka kabi abaphume naboesiswini senyoka. UTasneem onukayo wagqokaisigege sakhe esinukayo, wagijimawaya ekhaya kubazali bakhewayecula ethi:Mama, ngivulele yimina, ngiyanuka;Mama, ngivulele yimina, ngiyanuka;Nginuka kabi kakhuluUmama wakhe walizwa iculo likaTasneem, wagijima waphumelaphandle, naye wacula wathi:Hamba la uyanuka.Hamba la uyanuka,Hamba la unuka kabi. Tasneem waphoxeka kakhulu.Wagijima waya endlinikamalumekazi nomalume wakhe,bamuzwa ecula:Ngivuleleni umnyango, ngiyanuka.Ngivuleleni umnyango, ngiyanuka,Nginuka kabi kakhulu.Baphumela ngaphandle kwendlu bacula njengoba umama wakheeculile:Hamba la uyanuka,Hamba la uyanuka,Hamba la unuka kabi. UTasneem wayesesalelwe indlukagogo wakhe kuphela . Inhliziyoyakhe yayibuhlungu. Wacabangaukuthi akukho muntu omthandayongenxa kwephunga elibi ayesenalo. Kodwa ugogo wakhe akazangeamxoshe wamgeza, kanye nesigegesakhe, wenza konke kwanukakamnandi. UTasneem wahlala nogogo wakheiminyaka eminingi. Ngelinye ilangaindodana yenkosi eyisicebi yacelaukumshada. Abazali baka Tasneem bezwangomshado, bese bamcela ukuthiabuyele ekhaya. uTasneem wazikhumbula ukuthiwayenuka kabi kanjani,wakhumbulaukuthi bamphatha kabi kanjani.Wabatshela ukuthi angeke abuyeleekhaya."Abazali kufanele babathandeabantwana babo," kusho yena,"noma benuka kabi." UTasneem wacela ugogo wakheukuthi azohlala nabo emziniwendodana yenkosi eyisicebi. Ukhulu wakhe wayejabule kakhulu,ephatheke kahle futhi ezizwa ebalulekile. Ugogo owayenomusanentombazane enukayo

Kwasuka sukela, kwakunendodaeyayihlupheka nomfazi wayo.Babenengane eyodwa voyentombazane, igama layokunguNonkungu.uNonkungu wayemuhle futhielungile. Abazali bakhebabemthanda kakhulu. Ngelinye ilanga abazali bakhebamhambisa kumalume wakheuMntonyama owayeyisicebi.Umama kaNonkunguwamthungela isiketi sekhethelo,esinelibhini, nezinkinobhokanye nobuhlalo.Wamenzela nomgexo omuhleowenziwe ngobuhlalu. Endleleni uNonkungu waficaumfula okwakumele awuweleenyathela ematsheni.Ngaphesheya komfulawahlangana nentombazanyanaeyayigqoke itshali. “Uyaphi?" kubuzaintombazanyana.“Ngivakashela umalume wamiuMntonyama," kushouNonkungu.“Kulungile uMntonyamaungumalume wami, futhi namingisendleleni evakashela yena,"kusho intombazanyana.Babe sebehambisana ke. Bengakahambi nje ibanga elideintombazanyana yathi,“Isiketi sakho sihle kanyenobuhlalu bakho. Ngicelaungiboleke kengibulinganise.”uNonkungu wakhumula isiketikanye nobuhlalo wanikaintombazanyana. Ngesikhathi intombazanyanaikhumula itshali layo igqokaingubo kaNonkungu,uNonkungu wabona ukuthi lentombazanyana inomsila!uNonkungu waqala ukwesaba.Waba nesiqiniseko sokuthilentombazanyana iyimbulu. Baqhubeka bahambisana.“Ngicela ungibuyisele isiketisami kanye nobuhlalu ,” kushouNonkungu.Kodwa imbulu yathi,“Ngivumele ngibugqoke sizesifike kulesiya sihlahla."Isho ikhomba isihlahlaesisegqumeni. Bathi sebefike esihlahleni,uNonkungu wathi kwimbulu,“Ngicela ungibuyisele isiketisami kanye nobuhlalu bami.”“Ngivumele ngisigqoke sizesifike emfuleni olandelayo,"kusho imbulu.UNonkungu wayesesaba,wavuma. Ekugcineni bafika emfuleni.Waphinda uNonkungu wacelaimbulu, “Ngicela ungibuyiseleisiketi sami kanye nobuhlalo."“Ngivumele ngisigqoke sizesifike kuleyandlu ehleliomama," kusho imbulu.Baqhubeka bahamba. Bathi sebefika kuleyondluenomama, imbulu yashiyauNonkungu yase ithi,“Anibheke lentombazaneegqoke itshali. Kade ilokhuingilandela yonke indlela.Ngifisa sengathi ingasuka la."UNonkungu wayephoxekile futhiethukile, wase waya esibayeniwayocasha. Imbulu yabe seyiya endlinikamalume uMntonyama, yafikeyathi,“Ngingumshana wakho,uNonkungu. Abazali bamibangithumele ukuba ngizohlalanawe."UMntonyama wayemukelaintombazanyana. Yenanomndeni wakhe bayiphathakahle imbulu.Kodwa bandla uNonkunguwayelala esibayeni edla nezinja. Emini uNonkungu wayehambaaye emasimini, acashengamahlanga acule:"Oh mina engilusizi,ngangithunyelwe ngubabanomama, ukuba ngizohlalanomalume uMntonyama.Endleleni ngaficana nembuluyangithathela isiketi sami kanyenobuhlalo. Oh mina engilusizi.” Ngeliye ilanga omunyewabafowabo baka Mtonyana,wezwa umuntu ocula kamnandikodwa wayengawuzwa ukuthilomculo uqhamuka ngakuphi.Wathi uma efika ekhayawaxoxela uMntonyane ngeculo.Ngaso leso sikhathi uMntonyanewaphuthuma emasimini.Walizwa iculo wamfuna wazewamthola uNonkungu. uNonkungu wamxoxela ukubakwenzekani , ukuthi imbuluyazithatha kanjani izingubozakhe yase yamembathisaitshali.uMntonyama wamthathauNonkungu wahamba nayewafike wamfihla endlini.uMntonyama wayesazi ukuthiimbulu uzoyibamba kanjani. UMtonyama wayeke wezwaukuthi umsila wembuluuyaluthanda ubisi, kangangobaawukwazi ukudlula obisiniengaluphuzanga.Wacela amadoda ukuthi ambeumgodi bese bethela amasiphakathi.Wabe esebiza wonkeamantobazanyanaasemphakathini ukubaazongenela umncintiswanowokweqa umgodi. Intombazanyana eyayigqokeisiketi nobuhlalu bukaNonkunguyayikhathazekile. Yayingafuniukweqa umgodi. Yayazi ukuthiumsila wayo uzonxanelwaamasi.Yahamba yaya endliniyawubophela emhlane.Yabuyela endaweni yayokwamanye amantombazane. Yathi uma yeqa umgodi, umsilawayo waqonda emasini. Ngesikhathi imbulu isazabalazaemgodini onamasi, amadodaavala umgodi ngenhlabathingokushesha. Bayingcwabalapho.Kwabe sekungukuphelangembulu.Kodwa uNonkungu wahlalangokujabula kwamalume wakheisikhathi eside.Cosi cosi yaphela.

Yayiyodwa ibhasi edolobheni lika-Ebei. Yayinkulu futhi iluhlaza okwesibhakabhaka. Yayinomsindo omkhulu. Ngelinye ilanga umama ka-Ebei wathi, "Kusasa sizokuya edolobheni siyothenga umfaniswano wakho." U-Ebei wajabula kakhulu. Babezohamba ngebhasi enkulu eluhlaza okwesibhakabhaka. Kwakungavumi ukuba alale ebusuku. U-Ebei wayesevele esegqokile lapho umama wakhe engena ezomvusa. U-Ebei nomama wakhe baya esitobhini. Balindela ibhasi enkulu eluhlaza okwesibhakabhaka. Kodwa ibhasi ayizange ifike. Abanye abantu bafika esitobhini. Babekhononda ngoba ibhasi yayingasigcinanga isikhathi. "Ngabe ibhasi isishiyile?" Babebuza. U-Ebei wakhathazeka. "Ngeke sikwazi ukuya edolobheni. Ngeke ngikwazi ukuthola umfaniswano wami," ecabanga. Abanye abantu baduba babuyela emakhaya. Kodwa u-Ebei wayekhala engafuni ukuya ekhaya. Kodwa umama wakhe wayemduduza ethi, "Sizolinda isikhashana eside." Masishane, bezwa umsindo. Babona izintuli emoyeni. Yayiza ibhasi! Kodwa le bhasi yayingeluhlaza okwesibhakabhaka. Yiyingenkulu. Le bhasi yayibomvu futhi incane. Abantu ababelindile bayibuka ibhasi. Abazange bagibele. "Ngenani! "Ngenani!" kumemeza umshayeli ethi, "Sishiywe isikhathi namuhla. U-Ebei nomama wakhe bangena kuqala. Ngesikhashana wonke umuntu wangena ebhasini elibomvu elincane. U-Ebei wabuka phandle ngefasitela. Wabona abanye abantu abaningi esitobhini. Abanye abantu abaningi babegijima bejahe ukugibela ibhasi. Kodwa basebeshiywe isikhathi. Ibhasi yase igcwele. Ibhasi ebomvu yahamba yaya edolobheni. "Iphi ibhasi enkulu eluhlaza okwesibhakabhaka?" Kubuza umama ka Ebei. "Ifile," kuphendula umshayeli. "Siyayilungisa, izobakhona kusasa," kusho umshayeli. U-Ebei wayengenandaba nombala webhasi. Wayengenandaba nobukhulu bebhasi. Wayejabuliswa ukuthi yayiya edolobheni.

Lalishisa ngelinye ilanga ehlobo, ehlathini elomile. Kwase kuyizinsuku eziningi uTsheketshe omncane engenamanzi. Ngidinga iconsi lamanzi, noma ngabe kungathiwa liconsa eqabungeni nje. Kodwa akusekho ngisho amazolo lawa. "Uma ngingaphuzi ngizofa, kuzomele ngiye kulomfula engake ngezwa ngawo," kusho uTsheketshe omncane. "Uzomuka nomfula, " kuxwayisa uNgwejeje ohlakaniphile. Kodwa uTsheketshe omncane wayenxanwe kakhulu. "Ngizofa uma ngingaphuzi," kusho yena. UTsheketsheke omncane wahamba wayofuna umfula. Wayenqamula otshanini obomile, nasemagatsheni omile. Kwaze kwaba uzwa umsindo wamagagasi echaphaka lapha nalaphaya. UTsheketshe omncane wahabula amanzi engaphezi. Wayejabule kangangoba akalibonanga igagasi elikhulu elabe liza lizomemboza. UTsheketshe wazama ukubambelela otshanini obomile eduze kwakhe. Kodwa wathathwa amanzi amphonsa kude. "Ngisizeni bo! Ngisizeni bo!" "Shesha gibela lana, " kusho uJuba omhlophe ebambe ukhuni ngomlomo wakhe.  "Angizukuhamba ngize ngibonge kujuba. Ngizolinda aze abuye azophuza futhi, " kusho Utsheketshe. Ngelinye ilanga esaloku alinda njalo uTsheketshe, kwaqhamuka abafana ababili bephethe izihlilingi. "Kunejuba elikhulu elimhlophe eliphuza kulomfula, lizoba ukudla kwethu kwasebusuku, " kusho omunye umfana.  "Angeke ngavumela labafana babulale uJuba omhlophe. Kodwa ngimncane kakhulu, yini nje engingayenza?". Ngawo lowo mzuzu uJuba omhlophe wandiza wehlela phansi ukuzophuza.  UTsheketshe omncane waba nesu. Wagxumela onyaweni lomfana wamluma ngamandla akhe wonke. Umfana wagxuma. "Ishuuu!" wakhala. UJuba omhlophe wethuka wandizela kude. Kwaba ukuphepha kwakhe. Kwaba ikona kubonga kwakhe uTsheketsheke kuJuba omhlophe.

Emandulo, izilwane zazingenayo imilenze. Zazihuquzela emhlabathini. Abantu kuphela ababenemilenze ngoba uMaguru wayebaphile yona. Ngelinye ilanga uMaguru wanquma ukupha zonke izilwane imilenze. Wazungeza idolobha ememezela ngombhobho. Wayefuna isilwane ngasinye sikwazi ukuhamba njengomuntu. Zajabula izilwane lapho zizwa ukuthi zizophiwa imilenze. Isilwane ngasinye sasifuna imilenze ukuze sikwazi ukuhamba nokugijima. Zacula, zatshikizisa imisila, zabhakuzisa amaphiko azo. Zahlangana izilwane zidingida ubulukhuni bokuhaqazela ngezisu. Umhlabathi wawuziklwebha izisu zazo. Imilenze yayizozisiza ukuze zikwazi ukuma zibone kude, njengabantu. Lwathi uma lufika usuku, izilwane eziningi zahaqazela zaya emzini kaMaguru ukuyokwamukela imilenze yazo. Izindlulamithi, amabhubesi, izindlovu, onogwaja, izingwenya, nezinyoni zashaya uhele zilinde ukuphiwa imilenze. Isilwane ngasinye sathola imilenze emine, kwathi izinyoni zathola imilenze emibili iyinye. Zaba nomahluko izilwane sezinemilenze. Ezinye zagida ngenxa yokujabula. Ezinye zazibhadazela zibuye ziwe zenziwa ubunzima bokuhamba ngezinyawo. Zazungeza idolobhana zibukisa kubantu. Zonke izilwane zathi, "Ngeke siphinde sihuquzele." Isilwane sokugcina emgqeni kwakunguShongololo. UMaguru wabuza, "Ukhona okulandelayo?" "Cha, ngingowokugcina," kuphendula uShongololo. UMaguru wacabanga, "Pho uma kungasekho muntu, ngizoyenzani yonke le milenze esele?" UMaguru wanika uShongololo yonke imilenze esele. UShongololo wahamba ejabule kakhulu ngoba ethole imilenze eminingi. "Sengizoshesha kakhulu kunabo bonke," ecabanga. Maduze nje emva kokuhamba kukaShongololo, kwafika uNyoka emzini kaMaguru. "Maguru, ngicela ungiphe imilenze," kuncenga uNyoka. "Sengiyikhiphe yonke imilenze. Wena ubukuphi?" kubuza uMaguru. "Ngiseliwe," kuphendula uNyoka. UMaguru wacinga endlini yakhe ukubona ukuthi ayikho yini imilenze esele. Kodwa akatholanga lutho. UMaguru waphuma wathi, "Ngiyaxolisa Nyoka, ayisekho imilenze esele." UNyoka wahuquzela wabuyela ekhaya engenayo imilenze. Kusukela ngalelo langa uNyoka akalali kakhulu. Uhlale elindele usuku lapho naye ayothola imilenze.

UAnasi isicabucabu kanyenoNogwaja babengabangani .Babehlala endaweni enokuthulaezintabeni .Unogwaja wayephethe epulazinielikhulu elinothile elinemifinonezithelo .Nokuba Unogwajababehlanganyela ngesandlaesivulekile nomngani wakhe ,uAnansi bekangathokozile futhienomona . Ngakho uAnansi wacabangaiqhinga elihlakaniphilelokuthatha ipulazi laka Nogwaja.Ngokushesha unogwaja wasalaebampofu futhiengenakhaya . U Anansi wabangumnikazi ozidlayo womhlabawonke kanogwaja,imifino, nezithelo . uAnansi waya emakethe ukubaathengiseizithelo zakhe nemifino .Wenza imali kangangokubawazewagcwalisa ubhasikidi omkhulungayo!Ngenye imali , wathengelaumndeni wakhe ummbila ,wawubekaphezu kwebhasikidi lemali . uAnansi ephethwe yinjabuloeya ekhayanebasikidi lakhe phezukwekhanda lakhe , ecula .Wayecabanga zonke izintowayezozithenga ngemali yakhe Endleleni laqala Ukukhemezela.Ngokushesha Ukukhemezelakwaphenduka kwaba yesindayoimvula.U Anansi isicabucabu washiyaubhasikidi wakheeceleni kwendlela eyaeyokukhosela ngaphansikwesihlahla . Kodwa kusukelalapho waqhubeka waqaphelisisakubhasikidi wakhe oyigugu Laqala ukuna kakhulungamandla,futhi uAnansi wathola ukubandafuthi wabamanzi . Ngakhowagijimela emgodini ." Mina ngizo hlala kulo mgodiize ithulue imvula, " kusho uAnansi ngokwakhe . "okungenani imali yami ivikelwewumbila engiwubeke phezu kwayo. Emva kwesikhashana , uNqeezindizela emhlabeni wabonaubhasikidi eceleni komgwaqo .Wabona ukuthi kwakukhonaimali kanyenommbila kubhasikidi .Ngakho wamboza ubhasikidinge wakheamaphiko futhi walindelaimvulaithule. uAnansi wabona unqe ehlezikubhasikidi wakhe ."Oh ngiyabonga , mnganewami, ngokuthiUvikeleibhasikidi yami, "washo kuNqe."Uxolo , Anansi , angikuzwangakahle? "kubuza unqe. Ibhasikidilakho? Lo bhasikidi ungowami!Ngiwuthole lapha ohlangothinilomgwaqo!"uAnansi akakholelwangaayekuzwa ngezindlebe zakhe !"Elami , ngisho kuwe!" Ngokuthukuthela , uAnansiwahamba wababikela ukwebakwinduna. kodwa uNqe wathikwinduna namadoda amadalawakhe ,"Kwakungenzekakanjani ukuba umuntu ashiyeubhasikidi ogcwele imalinommbila ungagadwangaemgaqweni?""Kodwa bengiyibhekileibhasikidi yami,"kusho uAnansi."imali yami Kanye nommbilawami!""Benginakekele ibhasikidingaphambi kokuthi wena ufikeuthi eyakho!" ,kuphendulauNqe. Lapho induna namalunga wayobemamele kahle nhlangothizombili,Baxosha uAnansi no Nqe.Baxoxa ngalendaba isikhathieside.Ekugcineni bathola isinqumo . Babiza uAnansi Kanye no Nqefuthi" Sikholelwa indaba ka Nqe ,"basebathi. "Akasilo isela .ubuzama ukuyenga okuthileokwakungesikho okwakho."uAnansi akazange akukholelweayekuzwa ngezindlebe zakhe!Waqhumuka wakhala . Ngokushesha lezi zindabazanda zokuthi ukuhlulelwakwahamba ngokumelananoAnansi.Wathi ehamba , wezwauNogwaja ehleka ehleka.UNogwaja waphindela emumvaepulazini lakhewakhulisa izithelo nemifino.Kepha uAnansi wabampofufuthi, engenabo abangani

Emandulo, kwakukhona indoda eyayinothile –inepulazi elikhulu elivundile, inezinkomo,amagusha nezimbuzi. Kodwa, ngesikhathi ikhula, kwakhula nokudinwa, ngoba kwakukhonaokwasekushoda emnothweni wayo. Wayengenaye unkosikazi. Emile ngaphansi kwesihlahlawafikelwa yisu elihle kakhulu.Uma egcina engamtholi umfazi,mhlawumbe angazenzela owakhe? Ngakhoke wabaza owesifazaneomuhle egatsheni lesihlahlaesiqinile.Wathi uma eseqedile ukwenzaisichushe sakhe wathinta amehloakhe avuleka. Ngesinekewamphefumulela, wavele waphilawaphefumula. Wayengowesifazane omuhleukwedlula bonke.Waguqa phambi kwakhe wamcelaukuba abe umfazi wakhe. Wamfaka isibhaxelo, ubuhlalunesicoco njengophawu lomshado.Wamakhela umuzi ngodakanotshani lapho ayehlala anabekhona.“Kukhona into eyodwaengiyicelayo,” washo kumkakhe“Ungatsheli noyedwa ukuthingikuthathephi” Kungekudala izinsizwaezingomakhelwane zaqala zaxoxazodwa.“Kungenzeka kanjani ukuthi ikhehlalingaba nonkosikazi omuhle kanje?Banquma ukumtshontsha.Bamthatha bamfaka esibayenisabo. Inhliziyo yekhehla yayibuhlungu.Wazizwa engakwazi ukuphilangaphandle kwakhe.Wacabanga, “Mhlawumbe ukubabenginotho lwakhe. Ngabeangibuhlungu kanje?”Wathumela amajuba amabiliukuyomfuna, amculela bese ebuyanento yakhe. Uma esemtholile amculela ngolimilwezinyoniMfazi, mfazi oyiyisihlahla omuhleukwedlula abanye abafaziIndoda yakho isithumile ukuthisizolanda isibhaxelo sakho! Wawanika isibhaxelo andiza phezu kwezindlu kwamaqguma naphezu kwemifula aze ayofikaendodeni yakhe. Wasithatha wasibeka ebusweni sathi ukumdududuza isikhashana. Umzwangedwa mamudla njalo.Ngakho ke wathumela amajubafuthi ukuthi ayomculela:Mfazi oyisihlahla,Mfazi oyisihlahla,omuhle ukwedlula abanye abafazi,Indoda yakho isithumile ukuthisizolanda isicoco sakho!Nempela zasithatha zandiza naso. Wabamba isicoco somkakhewabubula ebalisa ngomkakhe elekude esibayeni lapho insizwa zabezimbeke khona.Emva kwesikhashana wabizaamajuba futhi. Hambaniniyomculela,Mfazi oyisihlahla,Mfazi oyisihlahla omuhle ukwedlulaabanye abafazi, indoda yakhoisithumile ukuthi sizokulandaubuyele ekhaya! Ngesikhathi amajuba ephindelakuye okwesithathu, afike ahlalaphezu kwamahlombe akhe. Aculaiculo lawo, ijuba lakopolota isolakhe.Ngokushesha waphendukaisichushe futhi. Izingalo nekhandalakhe kwawohloka. Indoda yakhe yagingqela isiqusomzimba wakhe emfuleni.Wamvusa wammisa ngezimpandezakhe emanzini. Elekelelwa ilanganamanzi wamila amaqabunga futhi. Ngesikhathi umoya uvunguzaamaqabunga awa.Njengokukhophoza komfazi umaebona umyeni wakhe.

Ngelinye ilanga uFudu abe ehamba otshanini. Abehamba ecinga ecinga.Ecingelaekudeni otshanini. Wadlula uMnenke. “Ingabe kukhona okucingayo?" kubuza uMnenke. "Yebo,Mnenke, ngicingana nendlu yami. Ingabe uyibonile yini?" uMnenke wathi:"Cha, angikaze ngiyibone, kodwa ngizokusiza ukuyicinga!"wagibela ngaphezulu kuFudu.uFudu wahamba uMnenke ehleli ngemuva kwakhe.Bacinga bacinga, kodwa uphawu lwendlu belungekho. Ilanga beliphezuluesibhakabhakeni. Muva nje, badlula uNyoni omduna.'Ingabe kukhona okucingayo?" kubuza uNyoni omduna. "Yebo, Nyoni omduna,ngicingana nendlu yami. Ngabe uyibonile yini?" uNyoni omduna wathi:"Cha,angikaze giyibone, kodwa ngizokusiza ukuyicinga!" uFudu ucingana nendlu yakhe. Walungisa izimpiko zakhewaphapha wahamba. "Kodwauhamba kakhulu kunami,"kukhononda ufudu. uNyoniomduna wabuya. "kulungile,ngizozuba ngihlale kuwe." uFudu waqhubeka wahamba,eno Mnenke kanye Nyoniomduna beminyene emhlanewaka Fudu. Bacinga bacingakodwa uphawu lwendlubelungekho. Ilanga beselehlileesibhakabhakeni. Muva nje badlula uNyoni omsikazi. "Ingabe kukhona okucingayo?' kubuza uNyoniomsikazi. "Yebo Nyoni omsikazi, ngicingana nendlu yami. Ingabe uyibonile yini? uNyoni omsikazi wathi:"Cha,angikaze ngiyibone, kodwangizokusiza ukuyicinga!"Wazuba ngemuva kuka Fudu,waqhubeka uFudu enoMnenke,uNyoni omduna kanye noNyoniomsikazi Bacinga bacingakodwa uphawu lwendlubelungekho. Umoya waqalaukuhhusha. Muva badlula uGundwane. Bekenza umqhele wezimbali. "Ingabe kukhonaokucingayo?" kubuza uGundwane. "Yebo, Gundwane, Ngicingana nendlu yami.Ingabe uyibonile yini?" uGundwane wathi :"Cha,angikaze ngiyibone, kodwangizokusiza ukuyifuna!" Wazubangemuva kuka Fudu. "Yima,angeke ngikwazi ukushiyaizimbali zami ngemuva." uFuduwema.uGundwane wazinwebawazinweba wathatha izimbalizakhe. uFudu waqhubeka wahambaeno Mnenke, uNyoni omduna,uNyoni omsikazi kanye noGundwane ngemuva kwakhe.Bacinga bacinga kodwa uphawulwendlu belungekho. Umoyawashanela amacembe phansi,wabahlanganisa nezinyawozakaFudu. uFudu wakhathala."Nonke niyasinda," wakhokhaumoya uMoya waba namandla.Isibhakabhaka satshintsha sabamnyama. "Hhhooo, iphi indluyami?" kubuza uFudu. Ukudumakwezulu kuzwakala ezintabeni.Umbani ushayela ekudeni. Yezaimvula. "Hhooo, iphi indlu kaFudu?" kubuza umnenke,uNyoniomduna, uNyoni omsikazi kanyenoGundwane. uMoya wahhusha wakhukhula. Waphephula umnenke,uNyoni omduna, uNyoniomsikazi kanye no Gundwane, ebasusa emhlane waka Fudu. Bese yeza imvula. uFudu waba nokuthuka, wazishobeza egogogweni lakhe.Lapho bekufudumala futhi kubuthebelele."Hhooo, nayi indlu yami!" "Hhooo, nayi indluka-Fudu!"

Siyazi ukuthi indlovu inomboko omude. Emandulo umboko wendlovu wawumfishane. Wawubukeka kabi. Kwazalwa inkonyane eyayithanda izinto. Yayihlala inombuzo ngezinye izilwane. Yahlangana nendlulamithi. "Kungani unentamo ende?" Ngakusasa yahlangana nobhejane. "Kungani unophondo olucijile?" Yaphinde yahlangana nemvubu. "Kungani unamehlo abomvu?" Ngoba yayithanda izinto, yafuna ukwazi ngengwenya. Ngabe ingwenya idlani ngesidlo sakusihlwa? "Ungalokothi ubuze umbuzo onjalo!" kusho umama wayo. Yahamba inyukubele. Ngokushesha igwababa landizela phansi, lahlala eduze kwendlovu. Lathi, "Ngilandele siye emfuleni, uzobona-ke ukuthi ingwenya idlani kusihlwa." Nangempela indlovu yalandela igwababa. Indlovu yazimpintsha yangena emhlangeni yama osebeni lomfula. Iphi ingwenya pho? "Sawubona," kusho itshe ngasosebeni lomfula. "Yebo," kuphendula indlovu. "Ungangitshela ukuthi ingwenya idlani ngesidlo sakusihlwa?" "Lalela-ke, goba ngizokutshela," kuphendula itshe. "Goba futhi, futhi," kuqhubeka itshe. Nangempela indlovu yehlela phansi yaze." "Ngqi!" Ikhala layo lase lise mhlathini wengwenya. "Helele! Izodla wena ingwenya ngesidlo sakusihlwa!" kutswininiza igwababa. Indlovu yazabalaza ngemilenze yayo yangemuva eqinile, yadonsa, yadonsa, yadonsa. Ingwenya ayizange iyidedele. Ikhala lendlovu ladonseka, ladonseka, ladonseka. Dalakaxa! Yawa yashayeka ngomhlane odakeni. Tshobe ingwenya emanzini. "Ngaze ngaphuthelwa ukudla okumnandi!" Indlovu yabheka umboko wayo. "Maye! Ikhala lami leli, elide kangaka?" Lalilide kangangoba lalikwazi ukufinyelela emagatsheni aphezulu esihlahleni. Indlovu kwayisiza lokhu. Yayisikwazi ukuzigeza umhlane wayo ngamanzi uma ilanga lishisa. Kusukela ngalelo langa, zonke izindlovu zinemiboko emide elusizo kuzona.

Ngu Mgqibelo ntambama, ilanga lalikhipa inhlanzi emanzini. "Zanele, Nosipho no Sanele. Phumani niyodlala ngaphandle." Kusho umama. Nangempela saphuma silandelana. Khona manjalo kwezwakala uSanele ethi, "Masihambeni siyodlala ngasemfuleni, kupholile lapho." "Hhayi-bo! Umama wasitshela kahle ukuthi singayi ukuyobhukuda emfuleni." Kulanda uZanele. "Ngeke sibhukude, sizozidlalela emthunzini eduze namanzi," kuphendula uSanele. Kodwa nokudlala nako, kufakelana ukushisa noma ungahlala emthunzini eduze nomfula. Saqala ngokukhipha izicathulo kodwa ukushisa kwathi ngikhona. Sakhumula amahembe neziketi, kodwa sasisezwela ukushisa. Ngokushesha safaka izinyawo zethu emfuleni ukuze sizipholise. Sathelana ngamanzi. Kwagcina ngokuthi sibe manzi te! "Kumnandi bakithi masivele sibhukudeni. Umama ngeke azi," kusho uNosipho. Sangena emanzini, sashaya amadamudamu sibhukuda kumnandi. Sakhohlwa. Lashona ilanga, saqala sagodola. "Ziphi izingubo zethu?" sibuzana sodwa. Sabheka, sabheka, do! Safuna phasi kwezihlahla. Ngubo wawula! Safuna esikhotheni, do! Sabheka yonke indawo. Eduze nomfula kwakunezinkomo zizidlela, ezinye zizetshisela utshani zinanela ubumnandi botshani. Kwathi lapho uZanele ebheka phezulu, "Hhabe! Yini le esemlonyeni wenkomazi?" USanele waphendula ngokunganaki, "Idla imbali ebomvu." Ngokushesha uNosipho wamemeza, "Hehehe! Bhekisisa, akuyona imbali, ihembe lakho!" Thushu! Nansi enye inkomo, nayo yayihlafuna okuluhlazana okwesibhakabhaka. "Isiketi sami!" kumemeza uZanele. Sizokwenzenjani? Kwakumele siphindele ekhaya. Sahamba ngezimpahla zangaphansi, siqhaqhazela sibheke ekhaya. Sasingasagodoliswa umoya opholile, kodwa sasiqhaqhazeliswa isenzo sezinkomo. Sahamba sikhala, "Izingubo zethu zidliwe izinkomo!" Ucabanga ukuthi umama wakholwa yindaba esasixoxa ngezinyembezi? LUTHO! Ngokushesha, izinqe zethu zase zifudunyezwe induku.

UThami wayehlala endaweni yaseMadadeni. Ngelinye ilangawahamba nomfowabo u-Ayandaukuyokha amanzi. Wathiesagcwalisa ibhodwe lamanziemfuleni uAyanda wabonaunogwaja. Ibhodwe lika Thami lase ligcweleeselungele ukubuyela ekhaya.Waqala ebheka umfowabo uAyandakodwa akazange ambone.Wahamba wahamba embhekaekugcineni waze wamtholaeziphumulele otshanini ngemuvakwesiduli esikhulu. Ngesikhathi esondela u-Ayanda wayebeke umunwe wakhe ezindebeni. Eduze njekwakuneqembu lamadoda ayehlezi ephumulile. Lamadoda ayephethe imicibisholo kanyenamahawu!"Ayanda," kuhlebeza uThami . “Lawomadoda angabahlaseli bazele ukuzontshontshaizinkomo baphinde bashise indawo yangakithi. Woza ngokushesha sigijime siyoxwayisaumphakathi wangakithi." Sebeseduze nasendaweniyangakubo bahlangana nomalumewabo. Wayehambisa izinkomoukuba ziyophuza. uThamiwamemeza ethi “Baleka malume,baleka! Amadoda ayezaukuzokweba izinkomo bashisenendawo yethu.”Umalume wamemeza izinkomozakhe wase emlekelela ukubaagijime aye emphakathini. Buqamama uThami wabona u-antiwakhe esebenza emasimini waseememeza ethi “Baleka anti, baleka!Amadoda ayeza ukuzokwebaizinkomo ashise nendawo yethu!"U-anti wathatha igejalakhe kanyenengane ayeyilalisile wabaleka eyaemphakathini. Buqamama uThami wabonaumkhulu wakhe exhugeza endlelenieqhuba imbongolo eyayithweleinhlamvu.Wamemeza ethi, “Baleka mkhulu,baleka!. Amadoda ayezaukuzokweba izinkomo ashisenendawo yethu!"Umkhulu waphakamisa indukuyakhe ngokushesha waqhubaimbongolo kwaze kwaba iyadlulaemphakathini. Bathi bangafika emphakathiniuThami no Ayanda babiza bonkeabantu bethi “Balekani, balekani.Amadoda ayeza azokweba izinkomobashise nendawo yethu!"Umphakathi wawethukile kodwaungazi ukuthi ungenza njani nomaungacasha kuphi.Wawuzozifihla kuphi izinkomozawo?Wawuzozifihla kuphi izinhlamvuzawo?Wona umphakathi wawuzocashakuphi? UThami wayethuke kakhulu kodwawakhumbula indawo lapho babekebayodlala khona beno Ayanda.Indawo ephephile.Indawo eyimfihlo. Wathatha isigubhu wasishayakakhulu.Bam Bam Bam Boom Boom BoomBonke abantu emphakathini bama.UThami wamemeza wathi,“Nginendawo yokucashangilandeleni."Wabamba uAyanda ngengalo. Baqala indlela eya esihlahleniesasingekho kude.“Kungani nisiletha lapha? Angekesikwazi ukucasha lapha," kushoumphakathi.UThami wathi kubaba wakhe,“Woza ngizokukhombise.”Banwebela baze bafika embobenievulekile phezulu esihlahleni.uThami nobaba wakhe behlelaphansi ngaphakathi esiswinisesihlahla. Sasivulekilengaphakathi. UThami nobaba wakhe bavulaimbono eceleni esihlahleni. Wonkeumphakathi wakwazi ukungenangaphakathi esihlahleni.Abanye babephethe ukudla kanyenamabhodwe.Abanye bephethe amagusha,izimbuzi kanye nezinkomo.Okwakumangaza wonke umuntuwasithola isikhala ngaphakathi. Lashona ilanga.Abahlaseli batheleka emphakathiningoba kwase kumnyama.Ngaphakathi esihlahleniumphakathi wawulindele noma yini.Kwakubanda, belambile futhibenokwesaba.Ngabe yini eyayizokwenzeka? UThami wathi, “Kuyabanda.Masibaseni umlilo.“Wathatha amatshe amabiliwawahlanganisa. Wokheleka umlilo.Ngokushesha umlilo ofudumeleokhanyayo wabe sowuvutha. Ilangabi lenyuka ngesihlahla.Esiqwini kwase kungasabhekekingenxa yokuhlaba kwelangabi.Ukuvutha kwaya kwaza kokhelekanamagatsha. Intuthuyayisiphothana ibheke phezuluesibhakabhakeni. Ngaphandle amasela asibona lesi sihlahla.“Imimoya!" bekhala , besaba.Isela lokuqala laphenduka labaleka. Nelinye ngokunjalolaphenduka labaleka.Nabanye kanye nabanye. Kwaze kwaba bonke bayabaleka.Umphakathi wase Ombalantu wasinda. Yini oyicabangayo?Ngabe nguThami noma isihlahlaesasindisa umphakathi waseMadadeni?