His hoe was too short. His doorway was too low. His bed was too short. His bicycle was too short. This man was too tall! He made a very long hoe handle. He made very high door frames. He made a very long bed. He bought a very high bicycle. He sat on a very high chair. He ate with a very long fork. He left his house and lived in a big forest. He lived for many years.

Alisha needs to find a job because her family needs money for food and clothes. Alisha did not work in her home country, but she is good at cooking and likes talking to people. Maybe she could work in a restaurant? Alisha searches on the Internet for job postings. She finds an advert for a chef. That is someone who cooks in a restaurant. She goes for the job interview. The restaurant manager tells her they need someone who has trained as a chef. Alisha is disappointed, but she takes a course called "Food and hospitality". She hopes this will help her to get a job in a restaurant. Alisha has to work in a restaurant as part of her training course. She does not get paid, but she gets work experience. She adds the details of the course to her CV. A CV is a description of all the work she has done and all the courses she has taken. Next time Alisha goes for a job interview at a restaurant, she is offered the job. It is hard work. She often has to work in the evening, when her children are home from school. She is proud that she has got a job so that she can buy food and clothes for her family with her own money.

All summer, I have been going to the Green Shack program at the playground near my house. This morning, my Green Shack leader introduces us to two new leaders from the Flying Eagle program. They are wearing blue shirts, just like my Green Shack leader. They will be leading activities with us for the whole week! The new leaders tell us that the Flying Eagle program teaches kids about Aboriginal culture. They say that "Aboriginal" means the people who first lived on this land, and they include First Nations, Métis, and Inuit people. My next-door neighbor says that she is Métis, and two brothers tell us that they are Inuit. Our leaders teach us about the medicine wheel. They say that each nation has its own colours, but that the Cree people of Treaty 6 -- where Edmonton is -- use blue, white, red, and yellow, and these colours represent the different people of the earth. They ask us about our heritage, and one kid says he is Somalian, and one says she is part Ukrainian and part Irish. A few say they are Chinese. I don't know what I am! We all have lots of fun playing together all day. At suppertime, I tell my family about my day at Flying Eagle. I ask my dad what we are. He says, "Do you mean, what is our heritage?" I nod. He points to a beaded flower on our wall, and says, "I am Cree, and your mom is Dene. We are First Nations. Our people are known for our beautiful beadwork. We are proud to be Aboriginal!" On Tuesday morning, I bring my little sister with me to the playground. The leaders take us on a bison hunt, but we don't hunt a real bison. We just pretend to. We practice our aim by throwing sticks through a rolling hoop. After the bison hunt, we make some mini drums. Our leaders tell us that the drum is the heartbeat of the people. When I am finished making my drum, I help my sister with hers. Later on, we make some totem poles. We pick animals that make us think of our family members, and we draw pictures of them on a paper towel roll. I draw a puppy for my little sister, because she is so cuddly, and a spider for myself, because I am good at making things. I draw a bear to be my mom, because she takes good care of us, and a fish for my dad, because he loves fishing. My sister mostly draws scribbles, but she tells me she is drawing a fish and a cat. My sister and I are excited to show our totem poles to our family when we get home. My dad is proud of us and puts them on the counter. He shows us a picture of him and a real totem pole from when he traveled to B.C. He tells us that Cree and Dene people do not build totem poles, but Aboriginal people near the ocean in B.C. do. He says that animals, like the ones in the totem poles, teach us many important things. On Wednesday morning, we make dreamcatchers. Our leader tells us that the Anishinaabe were the first Aboriginal people to make dreamcatchers. They catch bad dreams in the web, and the good dreams float down the feathers to us. While we work on our crafts, our leaders tell us about the seven sacred teachings of the Anishinaabe: humility, honesty, respect, courage, wisdom, truth, and love. I decide to give my dreamcatcher to my grandma so I can show her how much I love her. After lunch, one of the leaders says we are going to "smudge." Smudging is one of the ways that Aboriginal people connect with the Creator. Our leader sets out a little metal pan and puts a braid of long grass that she calls "sweetgrass" inside. She lights the sweetgrass and it starts to smoke. The smoke smells sweet. I ask the Creator for good thoughts, good words, and good feelings as I wave the smoke over myself. Our leader says that each person can ask for the same things in their own way. After smudging, we get to have a fire! Our leaders show us how to make bannock. We roll the dough into a ball and put it on the end of a stick, and roast it over the fire like a marshmallow. It's delicious! It tastes like soft, warm bread. I put honey all over mine, which gets a bit messy, so I have to lick it all up. When we come home, my dad takes a deep breath in as he hugs me and asks if I was smudging today. How did he know!? He tells me he can smell the sweetgrass on my clothes. I fall asleep to the smell of sweetgrass smoke that is still on me. On Thursday, we play some neat games from the Arctic. Our leaders tell us that the Inuit people made up these games a long time ago, and they still play them. Everyone's favourite game is "butt bump," where we try to bump each other off balance using our butts. We all laugh a lot together! After the hand games, we make Métis sash crafts by braiding colourful pieces of yarn together. Each of the colours means something important to the Métis people, like green, which stands for growth and success. Weaving all the colours together shows how the Aboriginal and European cultures of the Métis people are woven together. Afterwards, the leaders let us try on real Métis sashes. The boys wear their sashes around their waists, and the girls wear them over one shoulder. In the afternoon, we play lacrosse. It is kind of like hockey, except that we have to throw a little ball using a stick, and we run around instead of skate. I am a very fast runner! …but using the stick is tricky. I score a goal on one of the leaders, though! She tells us that Aboriginal people invented lacrosse. Cool! My friend can't run as fast as me, but he's good at catching the ball. My dad picks me up early from Flying Eagle to go to Aboriginal Family Night. I tell my friends there about all the games we play and the crafts we make at Flying Eagle. One of my friends says that Flying Eagle will be at the playground near his house next week, and his mom says I can go with him if I want. I can't wait! On Friday morning, I head to the playground for the last day of Flying Eagle at my playground. We are playing a hide-and-seek game called Eagle Eyes -- my favourite game! -- on the playground when it starts to rain. Our leaders tell us that the rain is a blessing, and we should be happy about it. I'm happy -- I love to play in the puddles! After lunchtime, one of our leaders teaches us some words in Cree. Tân'si means hello, and amiskwaciwâskahikan is the Cree name for Edmonton. That one is hard to say! Some of the other kids in the group teach us how to say some words in their own languages. This is fun! Just before we go home, we have a talking circle, where everybody gets to say what they thought about the week. Sometimes I talk slowly, but I like that nobody rushes me when I am holding the feather in the talking circle. I give my leaders a hug at the end. When I go home, my grandpa and grandma are there. They are visiting us for the weekend. I tell them all about my week at Flying Eagle. My grandma gives me a hug when I give her my dreamcatcher and says, "I'm glad you have a chance to learn about Aboriginal culture while you're having fun in a safe space. That's something all kids deserve." She's right -- I'm going to tell all my friends about Flying Eagle!

A fawn was racing in the forest. He was ahead of the rabbit. He was ahead of the elephant. He leapt and cleared the stream. He ran past the crumbling wall. There was a large boulder on the grassy plain. He stumbled and fell down. He burst into tears. The monkey massaged his leg. Tears flowed from the fawn's eyes. Brother Bear picked him up. The fawn didn't stop crying. His mother came. She said, “Look, we'll beat up this bad boulder!” The fawn said, “Oh, don't do that or he will also start crying.” His mother laughed. So did the fawn.

This is a fat king. The fat king has a thin dog.The fat king and his thin dog go for a walk. The dog sees a bird.The dog runs after the bird. The king runs after the dog. They run and run.They run and run for many days. The king catches the dog. Now the fat king is thin.

"I am scared." "Ouch!" "Are you okay?" "My stomach hurts." "I have a headache." "I'm hungry." "I'm tired." "I'm sleepy." "I'm thirsty." "That's a shame."

Little Bear wakes up. Little Bear gives thanks. Little Bear puts on his clothes. Little Bear washes his face. Little Bear eats breakfast. Little Bear rides the bus. Little Bear learns. Little Bear eats lunch. Little Bear plays. Little Bear exercises. Little Bear goes home. Little Bear eats supper. Little Bear brushes his teeth. Little Bear puts on his pyjamas. Little Bear goes to sleep.

Look at the animals. The cow says, "Moo." The goat says, "Meh,meh." The horse says,"Neigh." The pig says, "Grunt." The chicken says,"Cluck." The dog says, "Woof." The farmer says,"Shhh!"

"I would like that one, please." "Do you have...?" "Is it okay if I sit here?" "That will be fine." "Would you like some of this?" "Yes, please!" "Could I see that one, please?" "Here you are."

My mom just told me we are moving to Edmonton.She is talking on the phone to a lady from an organization called New in Town in the city.The lady is helping her figure out what we should do. I go to see my grandma.I feel sad. I don't want to leave.She tells me that she loves me, and that I will get to see and do all kinds of neat things in the city. I put my clothes and my favourite toys in my backpack. I say goodbye to my house.We get on a big bus. My tummy feels yucky, so I have a nap on my moms lap. She wakes me up when we get close to Edmonton so I can see the city lights.My mom says a lady from New in Town will pick us up from the bus station. We go to live with my auntie. I share a room with my cousin.I like sleeping in a bunk bed!But sometimes I can't sleep because he snores, and the cars outside are so loud at night. I have to go with my mom so she can fill out some forms.The New in Town lady helps us take a big blue bus.There are so many people that we have to stand on the bus while it's moving! My auntie takes me and my mom to Family Night at a school near her house.The New in Town lady is there. She introduces me to some kids who will be in my class.We have fun learning some cool hoop-dancing moves. I feel nervous about my first day of school.I ride a school bus just like my old bus.I see my friends from Family Night and we play together at recess.There are so many kids in my class! I join the soccer team at my school. We play every Friday at lunch.One of my teammates invites me to his birthday party.We go swimming at West Edmonton Mall. I love the waterslides! My auntie takes me and my cousin trick-or-treating.There are so many houses, and they are so close together.We don't have to walk very far to get a whole bagful of candy! My mom gets a new job so I have to go to afterschool care.I meet some new kids from other grades.My favourite activity is when we all sing and play music together. I like to play my drum. We are moving into a new house!We don't have very much furniture, but now I have my own bed.I miss sleeping in my cousin's bunk bed, but I can sleep better now without his snoring. I have a new babysitter.She takes me tobogganing, and afterwards we go inside the Muttart Conservatory to warm up.We see lots of neat plants from all over the world. I love smelling the flowers and feeling so warm in the pyramids even though it is winter. On New Years, my family takes the train to downtown.All of the buildings are sooo tall.We see the New in Town lady again. She counts down the seconds with us, and gives me a big hug at midnight. My mom says I can pick one friend to come to my birthday party. I pick my new best friend.We go have Indian tacos at Bannock Burger.He had never had an Indian taco before, but he loves it! I had a bad day at school today.I forgot my lunch and my mom was at work so she couldn't bring it to me. PLUS some kids in my class teased me for being different.I don't like it here. I want to move back home. My mom takes me and my cousin to a round dance that Bent Arrow is putting on.I see lots of people I know.I have lots of fun dancing with my friends. Today has been another bad day at school.I miss my bus home, and at first I feel scared. I wonder if I will have to sleep at my school all alone. The secretary calls my mom and she comes to pick me up.While I wait, my science teacher shows me a cool experiment! He tells me it's okay to be different, and I feel a lot better than my last bad day. It's the last day of school before summer holidays.Our class has a hot dog roast and plays games in a park.I'm not too sad, because I know I'll see my friends at camps and swimming lessons during the summer. My grandma calls me.She asks me if I like living in Edmonton.I miss seeing her every day, but I like that there are so many things for me to see and do here.I ask her to come visit us soon so I can show her around and introduce her to all my friends. I am visiting my family back on my reserve.My cousin just found out that his family has to move to Edmonton. He feels sad.I know how he feels. I tell him that it's not so bad—it's exciting to learn and see all the new things when you're new in town!

This dress is long. This jersey is big. This bag is big. This belt is... This hat is small. The socks are short. But these shoes are new. ... they fit well.

Everytime I finish my hot, hot bath,My wet body feels so cool, cool cool.Who makes that happen?Vayu the Wind! The milk in my cup is too hot, too hot.But soon it is ready for me to gulp.Who makes that happen?Vayu the Wind! The window curtains flutterAnd gently brush my face.Who makes it happen?Vayu, the Wind! A bolt of lightning far away.Black clouds moving my way.Who makes that happen?Vayu, the Wind! Branches sway and leaves tremble.Flowers gently fall.Who did it all?Vayu, the Wind! Far from the house, we are playing,Yet, I can smell the sweets mother is preparing.Who makes it happen?Vayu, the Wind! A glass tumbler on a window sill,Crashes on the ground.Thank God, I was not around.Who played this mischief?Of course, it was Vayu, the Wind! A whistle blows. A train rolls in.I cannot see, but I hear its din.Who makes that happen?Vayu, the Wind! Cannot be seenCannot be heardDoes all the workWithout a word.Who can it be? Of course!The wind!Vayu, the wind!

Chuskit woke up early that morning. It was a very special day and she was too excited to sleep. She eagerly looked out of the room through the window next to her bed.It was spring time in Ladakhand the apricot trees were in full bloom. Two magpies had already begun their day and were busy looking for insects to eat. Her Ama-ley was awake too. She could hear her in the kitchen making gur-gur tea. Chuskit had been awake for the last hour. This was a day she was going to remember for a long time. Can you guess why?No, it was not Losar, the New Year festival. That was many months away. Nor was it any special day in her village, like the gonpa festival, or a wedding day.Today was going to beChuskit's first day at school. At nine years, she had waited a long, long time for this. The school was not very far away from her home. To getthere, you had to walk up tothe main road. Just beforethe prayer wheel, you tookthe path to the left of theroad that ran along a narrow stream. Near the poplar trees you crossed the stream by jumping over the big rocks.Once you got to the otherside, a short walk up a slopetook you to the school. Allthe children of Skitpo Yul,Chuskit's village, walked toschool everyday and withease. But not little Chuskit. She had a disability and could not walk. Chuskit was born with legs that did not work like everyone else's. Her father had taken her to the village amchi and then to the doctors in Leh. But no amount of medicine had helped her walk.At first, Chuskit did not realise that she was in any way different from the Stobdan her younger brother, or her cousins. But soon there were many things she could not do as easily as them.“That does not matter,” her Aba-ley would tell her whenever she felt sad. “You can stitch better than any of them. And you draw very well.” Aba-ley often brought her some colour pencils from Leh. Chuskit would sit at the kitchen window everyday and draw what she saw while her Ama-ley cooked. She could see her family's animals being taken to graze every morning.She could see the blue waters of the stream that flowed near by. And she would be the first one to announce the arrival ofa visitor to their house! Chuskit used a chair fitted with wheels to move around. Elders called it a wheelchair. You could move it in any direction- forward, left, right and even backward - by moving the wheels with your hands. You only needed to have really strong arms to push the weight of your body and the chair.When Aba-ley first brought the wheelchair home, everyone in her family was very excited. “Now I won't have to carryChuskit everywhere. I can wheel her around,” said Ama-ley, with tears of happiness in her eyes.“And I will be able to gowherever I want!” cried Chuskit excitedly.“Please, please, could I ride on your wheelchair once in a way?” begged Stobdan.He wanted to wheel it around too. It looked like fun. Billa, the big black cat, jumped on to the wheel-chair and stretchedacross the seat.“Yes this is far more comfortable than the sack cloth I sleep on,” she purred. Slowly, Chuskit learnt to useher wheelchair. She would ask her mother to seat her in the wheelchair outside her home every evening.From here she would watch children returning from school, chattering and laughing merrily in groups. In a while, the evening bus would return from Leh, bringing back people from work and the market place. How much more exciting the world was from here than from the kitchen window! One evening when Chuskit was sitting outside the house with her grandfather, a young boy came up to her. He carried a letter which he handed over to her grandfather. “Julley! The bus driver asked me to give this to you,” he said.“My name is Abdul,” he said turning to Chuskit. “I study Class 6 at the Government School. I have often wondered why you don't come to school.”“Julley, Abdul,” said Chuskit. “I have never been to school. The path to the school is too uneven and pebbly and my wheelchair will get stuck. Besides, I cannot cross the little stream in front of the school. It would be very difficult for my parents to carry me to school and back everyday.”“But would you like to come to school?” asked Abdul. “Of course!” replied Chuskit. “I hear my younger brother talk of all that he does at school. I want to study like all of you, make friends, play games, wear a uniform and even write exams. Sometimes my brotherteaches me songs that he has learnt at school and I love it. You may not believe this, but I sometimes dream of carrying a school bag, even eating packed lunch...”“Enough! Enough!” interrupted her grandfather.“Stop dreaming, Chuskit. You know you cannot go to school. I have told you this many times. Learn as much as you can at home.” “Meme-ley, please,” pleadedChuskit softly with tears in her eyes as her grandfather walked away angrily. “Meme-ley does not understand how I feel,” said Chuskit. “I remember the day my brother recited his tables with such pride, even the time he learned to read! My parents were very happy as they have never been to school. I too want to learn to read and do math. Do you understand?”“I do,” said Abdul.“Chuskit, I will see you again. I must go now. My mother will be waiting for me. Julley!” The next day, Abdul wentstraight to the Headmaster'sroom after assembly.“Julley, Azhang-ley!” he said. “I want to talk to you about a girl from our village who does not go to school. Her name is Chuskit. She is Stobdan's sister.”“Oh yes,” replied theHeadmaster. “I know her. She is disabled, isn't she?” “Yes, Azhang-ley. She uses a wheelchair to move around but cannot reach school, as the path from her home is too rough and uneven. I was wondering if we could do anything to help her, Azhang-ley. We could all get together and level the path and also build a small bridge across the stream.”“That's very thoughtful of you, Abdul,” said the Headmaster as he patted him on the back. “What made you think of Chuskit and her problems?”“Azhang-ley, last week we read about thefundamental rights of citizens in our civics class. All children have a right to education. That includes Chuskit as well, does it not?”“Yes, you are right, Abdul. Let me discuss this with the other teachers,” replied the Headmaster. The next day the Headmaster called all the teachers to a meeting. He shared Abdul's ideas with the group and asked the teachers what they felt. “Impossible!” said one of them. “How can we have a disabled child in our school? How will she be able to write, play and go to the toilet like the other children do?” “That's exactly what we have to workout,” said the Headmaster. “I hear that in the village of Mentok Yul, the Village Education Committee has helped build a special toilet for one of their disabled children. We could ask them what they have done. But first we will have to get Chuskit to school. Then we could think of ways of helping her do things in school.” Two weeks later there was great excitement at the Government School. All the children had gathered outside in the playground. They had come to school without their school bags:there were going to be no classes today! The teachers divided the children into groups. One group worked in front of Chuskit's house and another on the path along the stream. A third group with some of the older children worked hard to help some of their teachers build a strong wooden bridge across the stream. The children laughed and sang as they removed stones and rocks, levelled paths and carried wooden planks to the stream. The Headmaster went from one group to another, making sure that all went according to plan. Chuskit's parents provided everyone with hot tea and biscuits.Chuskit's grandfather sat under a willow tree by the stream watching the busy school children. “I never dreamt I'd see a day like this!” he thought to himself as he wiped a tear that rolled down his cheek.At the end of the day it was a tired but happy group of children that returned to their homes. The path from Chuskit's home to the school was now ready! Chuskit was going to school for the first time in her life. And that's why she was so excited! Words used in the story that may be new to you:Aba-ley: FatherAma-ley: MotherMeme-ley: GrandfatherAmchi: A local doctor who has been trained in Tibetan medicine.Azhang-ley: Term used with respect for anelderly man.Gonpa: Buddhist monasteryGur-gur tea: Butter tea that is made in a longcylindrical wooden vessel. The tea is churned with butter, salt and milk in this vessel. A low gur-gur noise is produced during churning.Julley: Term used as a greeting: hello, goodbye.

Goat, Dog, and Cowwere great friends. Oneday they went on ajourney in a taxi. When they reached theend of their journey, thedriver asked them topay their fares. Cowpaid her fare. Dog paid a bit extra,because he did nothave the correct money. The driver was about togive Dog his changewhen Goat ran awaywithout payinganything. The driver was veryannoyed. He droveaway without givingDog his change. That is why, eventoday, Dog runstowards a car to peepinside and find thedriver who owes him hischange. Goat runs away fromthe sound of a car. Sheis afraid she will bearrested for not payingher fare. And Cow is notbothered when a car iscoming. Cow takes hertime crossing the roadbecause she knows shepaid her fare in full.

"Hi!""Hello!" "Bye!""Goodbye!" "This is Kama." "Hi, I'm Kama.""Nice to meet you, Kama." The phone is ringing. "Hello." "Hi, this is Sara." He hangs up. "Welcome!" "Please come in." "I'm sorry." "No problem." "Excuse me, please." "One moment, please." "This is Ali.""This is Leila."

It is spring. My mom says it is cloudy and raining outside. I put on my raincoat and my rubber boots. Let’s play outside! It is summer. My mom says it is hot and sunny outside. I put on my bathing suit and my sandals. Let’s play outside! It is fall. My mom says it is warm and windy outside. I put on my sweater and my shoes. Let’s play outside! It is winter. My mom says it is cold and snowing outside. I put on my underwear and my longjohns and my pants and my shirt and my socks and my winter jacket and my winter boots and my toque and my scarf and my mittens. Let’s play outside!

One day, Anansi the spider pickedsome yams from his garden.They were extra beautiful deliciousyams, so he baked them carefully inthe fire.Then he sat down to eat them up. Just as Anansi was about to put thefirst bite in his mouth, he heard aknock on his door. "Oh, no!"thought Anansi. "Who can that be?"But he opened the door.There was Turtle, who looked verytired. Turtle said, "Anansi, please letme in. I've walked so far today, andI'm so tired and hungry."So what could Anansi do but let himin? Anansi was too selfish to share hisbeautiful delicious yams withanybody else. So he came up with anasty plan.Just as Turtle sat down at the tableand began to reach for some yams,Anansi yelled at him, "Turtle, yourhands are all dirty! You can't eatwith your hands all dirty! Go washthem."Turtle's hands really were dirty. Sohe slowly crawled to the river,washed his hands, and then crawledback. But meanwhile Anansi had startedgobbling up the yams. By the timeTurtle got back, he saw that theyams were all gone.Turtle looked at Anansi. "Thank youfor inviting me to dinner. If you'reever near my house, please comeby and let me return the favour,"said Turtle.And Turtle began crawling slowlyaway to his house. As time went by, Anansi began tothink more and more about howTurtle had promised to feed him afree dinner. So one day he walkedover to Turtle's house.Anansi got to Turtle's house justabout dinnertime, as the sun wasgoing down over the river. Turtlewas lying on a rock in the sun,warming himself up, as turtles do.When Turtle saw Anansi, he said,"Hello there, Anansi, have youcome to have dinner with me?"And Anansi said, "Yes, that wouldbe very nice, thank you." He wasgetting hungrier and hungrier. So Turtle dived down to the bottomof the river to set the table fordinner and get everything ready.Anansi waited on the rocks by theshore.Soon Turtle swam back up and said,"Oh Anansi, it is all ready now,please join me for dinner." AndTurtle dived down again and beganto eat the green leaves he had fordinner. Anansi tried to dive down to thebottom of the river, but he was aspider, not a turtle, and he couldn'tdive that deep. He kept floatingback up to the surface again.He tried jumping in, he tried divingin, but nothing helped. He justcouldn't get down to that dinner. Finally Anansi had an idea. He putlots of stones in the pockets of hiscoat, and finally he was heavyenough to sink down to the bottomof the river.How clever he was!He saw Turtle's table, full of juicygreen leaves and lots of otherdelicious food. Anansi's mouth waswatering. But just as Anansi was reaching forsome of that delicious food, Turtlestopped him. "Anansi, surely you'renot going to eat dinner with yourcoat on? That's not how we dothings at my house."Anansi, without thinking, said, "Oh,of course you're right, Turtle, whatwas I thinking?" He took off hiscoat. But without the rocks in his pocketsto hold him down, Anansi floatedright back to the surface of the riveragain, and popped out of the water.Anansi sadly put his head down intothe water and watched Turtle eat upall of the delicious food!

Grandmother Fox goes... through the forest over the hill under the fence behind the bear around the moose into the den out of the cold home to Little Fox.

"Thank you!" "I don't know." "Where is...?" "That way." "I don't understand." "Is this right?""Yes." "Is this right?""No." "Can I help you?" "Could you help me, please?""Yes, of course!" "Could I have that, please?""Yes, of course!" "Thank you!"

I asked Ajji, “May I please have some laddoos?”“Not now, beta, maybe tomorrow.”But I did not want to wait till tomorrow. I asked Ajja, “May I go out to play with my friends?”“Not now, beta. Maybe after your nap?”But I did not want to wait till after my nap. I asked Ma, “May I wear these new clothes?”“Not now, beta, you can wear them when we go out.” But I did not want to wait till we went out. I asked Papa, “May I open that nicelooking box?”“Not now, not now. You must wait.”But I did not want to wait any more. Why do big people always say,‘Not now, not now'?That night, I went to sleep feeling angry. The next day, I woke up early and went into the kitchen. Ajji said, “You can eat these laddoos now.” Ajja said, “We can play cricket now.”Ma said, “You can wear these clothes now.”Papa said, “You can open this box now.” And they all said, “Happy birthday!”

Long long ago people didn'tknow anything. They didn'tknow how to plant crops, orhow to weave cloth, or how tomake iron tools.The god Nyame up in the skyhad all the wisdom of the world.He kept it safe in a clay pot. One day, Nyame decided thathe would give the pot ofwisdom to Anansi.Every time Anansi looked in theclay pot, he learned somethingnew. It was so exciting! Greedy Anansi thought, "I'llkeep the pot safe at the top of atall tree. Then I can have it allto myself!"He spun a long thread, wound itround the clay pot, and tied it tohis stomach.He began to climb the tree. Butit was hard climbing the treewith the pot bumping him in theknees all the time. All the time Anansi's young sonhad been standing at thebottom of the tree watching. Hesaid, "Wouldn't it be easier toclimb if you tied the pot to yourback instead?"Anansi tried tying the clay potfull of wisdom to his back, and itreally was a lot easier. In no time he reached the top ofthe tree.But then he stopped andthought, "I'm supposed to bethe one with all the wisdom,and here my son was clevererthan me!"Anansi was so angry about thisthat he threw the clay pot downout of the tree. It smashed into pieces on theground. The wisdom was freefor everyone to share.And that is how people learnedto farm, to weave cloth, tomake iron tools, and all theother things that people knowhow to do.

Moru had strong likes and dislikes. When he liked something, he loved it. And when he did not like something, he absolutely hated it.No one could make him do things that he did not want to do and no one could stop him from doing what he wanted to do. Moru liked to climb trees and steal raw mangoes. He would creep along the branch pretending to be a cheetah in a deep dark jungle. He enjoyed catching insects - the blue green bottle fly with the big shiny head, the thin and crisp grasshopper, and the yellow butterfly whose colour came off like powder on his fingers. Moru loved flying kites, the higher the better. He would climb to the tallest terrace to get his kite to soar far above the clouds like a brilliant eagle trying to reach the sun. Moru liked numbers. Number 1 looked thin and lonely; 100 was fat and wealthy. How graceful 9 was, even more so when she stood next to 1 and became 19.Numbers were like an unending staircase. Moru imagined climbing them one by one by one, racing up, sometimes two, sometimes three or four or more steps at a time. When he was tired, he saw himself sliding down the banister with the numbers waving at him.Unlike rice at lunchtime, which often finished before anyone was even half full, unlike friends who had to go home just as soon as the game was starting to be fun, numbers were always there. Unending and infinitely fun, to be juggled, sorted, matched, shared, laid out in a row, thrown away, put together and taken apart. Moru liked going to school because many of his friends went too. He liked getting up in the morning and having somewhere to go. He liked the big playground but he did not like going to class.He did not like the teacher. He felt trapped in the room. The children could not ask questions, they could not move around and they could not speak when they wanted to say things. The teacher was bad-tempered. Moru felt that the teacher did not like the children at all. Maybe he did not even like being a teacher or coming to a school. In any case, children did not like the teacher either. Every morning, the teacher wrote things on the blackboard. In a loud voice, he told the children to copy it down on their slates. Then he would go outside. If the boys could copy his things from the blackboard nicely, the teacher looked at it. If they could not do it, the teacher got angry. When he was angry, he would call the children names and if he got very angry he would hit them hard. One day, the teacher wrote some sums on the board. The sums were easy but they were boring. Moru did not feel like doing them and he did not have a slate. His slate had broken and his mother did not have the money to buy a new one.Instead he counted the hundreds of ants that were climbing the wall. He looked at the tree outside and noticed that the leaves were perfect. Perfect leaves had perfect shadows. In his mind, Moru counted how many broken bricks there were along the school's compound wall. He calculated that if each brick costed five rupees it would take more than one thousand rupees to fill in all the gaps and broken spaces in the wall. “Moru!” scolded the teacher. “Why are you not doing anything?”Moru looked blank. “Where is your slate? Why haven't you brought one to school?” shouted the teacher. Moru could see that the teacher was angry with him. Moru replied, “My old slate broke and I don't have the money to buy a new one.” The teacher was angry and gave Moru a sharp tap with the stick in his hand. Moru continued softly, "Even if I had a slate I won't do the sums because I don't want to." The teacher was furious. He slapped Moru. Moru's cheek burned bright red. Sudden hot tears sprang into his eyes. He stood up and ran out of the room, down the verandah, across the dusty playground, through the broken gate and away. The next morning, Moru's mother woke him up in time for school. But Moru would not get up. He lay on the narrow bed with his eyes tightly shut.Next day it was the same story, and the next day and the next. No one could persuade Moru to go back to school. One week passed and then one month. Moru sat on the wall in front of his house. Sometimes he would disappear into the market for hours. He would try to fly his kite from the terrace but it was no fun because the sky was empty.His mother scolded him, his brother teased him, his grandmother begged him, his uncle bribed him and his friends coaxed him. But nobody could persuade him to return to school. The rains came and school opened after the summer vacation. Everyone thought Moru would go back to school with all the children. “No,” said Moru very firmly. A year passed.Everyone gave up on Moru. Perhaps Moru gave up on himself too. Instead, he began to do other things. He would go to the market and give the vegetable sellers a hard time. He would gang up with other children like him who had left school and tease and taunt the children who were going to school.He would make paper airplanes out of the school notebooks of his friends. He would go up on the terrace and hit unsuspecting people who were passing by with pellets from his sling. One day, the old teacher left. A new young teacher came in his place. That day Moru was sitting on the wall watching the children go to school. No one asked him anymore why he did not go with them. Instead, children avoided him because they were afraid that he would bother them. The teacher was passing by. Moru looked at the teacher. The teacher looked at Moru Neither smiled and neither frowned.The next day, at the same time and the same place, Moru looked down from the wall. The teacher looked up at him and smiled. It was a small smile. Moru jumped from the wall and ran away. A few days later, the teacher was passing by. He was carrying a huge bag. The bag was very heavy. The teacher was having a difficult time. Moru scratched his head. The teacher passed him by slowly.Moru thought and then he ran behind the teacher. Without saying anything, he took hold of one end of the bag. The teacher was relieved and together they were able to get the heavy load to the school quickly. Inside the school , the bag was carefully put on the teacher's table. The teacher opened the bag and let Moru look inside. There were many many books, colourful books of all sizes and shapes. They felt shiny and smelt new.“Can you help me to take them out?” asked the teacher. Moru began bringing out the books. There were books with stories in them, with pictures on the cover. Some were written in large letters. Some books had so much in them that the words had to be squeezed into the pages. Moru felt his excitement rising. He had not touched a book in two years. The next day, Moru waited till school was over and all the children had left. The teacher was alone. Moru went in quietly and stood by the door. The school seemed ghostly when all the noise and laughter and shouting was gone.The teacher looked up and said, “Good you have come. I need your help.” Moru was curious. What kind of help could the teacher need? He had many, many children in his school to help him. In a very matter of fact kind of voice the teacher said, “Can you help me sort out the books?” Moru sat on the floor. The books were all around him. There were so many storybooks.He put the animal ones together. The leopard storybook would feel more comfortable with the elephants and camels. The fairytales could sit with the stories about gods and goddesses. The adventure stories sat on their own. Or maybe they should go with the heroes and famous people? Then came the books with numbers. Moru's eyes and fingers slowed down. The fat numbers danced with the thin ones. Two digits balanced one on top of the other like an unsteady building still waiting for the base to be filled. The multiplication sums looked short and squat and got fatter and fatter at the bottom as the numbers got bigger.Division was just the opposite. You began with a lot and then if you were careful, you worked it down to create a long thin graceful tail. If you were lucky there would be nothing left. One by one all the numbers and their tricks came back to Moru. It was dark and the school had no lights. “You have to go home now, Moru, but you can come back tomorrow,” said the teacher. “But can you come when the children are here please?” Next day, soon after school started, Moru came. The children were surprised to see him and a little scared.By now Moru was famous as a ‘dada' of the neighbourhood. “I have someone to help me now,” said the teacher. He put Moru with the younger children. There were books in which the children were supposed to write.“Please, can you help the children arrange these numbers in ascending and descending order?” The little kids scrambled around Moru; they were amazed that a tough fellow like Moru knew so much. Moru made the children stand in a line - the smallest children at one end and the tallest ones at the other end. He gave them numbers to hold. Now it was easy. Just like with short children and tall children, it is easy to know who to put where, it was the same with the numbers.Every day Moru would come for a little while and every day the teacher would give him a bigger and bigger task to do. Every day he found his love for numbers was getting stronger and every day his excitement and skill was being absorbed by the little children. One month later, Moru's mother was looking for him in the middle of the morning. He was nowhere to be found. She looked on the terrace but he was not there. She looked on the wall where he normally sat dangling his feet, but only his kites were resting there. She looked up on the mango tree, the leaves rustled in the breeze but there was no Moru on the branches. She went to the market but all the vegetable sellers were selling their vegetables without being bothered by the usual gang of boys.Finally, she walked down the lane and happened to look into the window of the school. There was Moru. His head was down, and he was looking carefully into his notebook. There was a frown of concentration on his forehead and a deep look of absorption in his eyes. He was busy solving complicated mathematics problems along with all the other children of his age.The teacher looked out too, and he smiled his soft warm smile at Moru's mother. She smiled back happily. Moru was in school again.This time he was learning more and more. And most importantly, this time he was loving it.

Kip feels like eating some noodles. Kip asks a friend to join him. They look for a place to eat. They find somewhere that sells noodles. Kip and his friend find a table. They sit down and call the waiter. The waiter comes. Kip orders noodles. His friend orders noodles too. They each get a glass of water. The waiter brings the food. They add sauce and salt, and stir the noodles. Kip and his friend eat the noodles. They are delicious. He drinks his water. They pay the bill.

Little Fox... That is too high. That is too deep. That is too far. That is too close. That is too much. That is too hot. That is too cold. That is too fast. That is too slow. That is just right. Thank you.

He is very tired. It is time to go to bed. He goes to the bathroom. He brushes his teeth. He goes into the bedroom. He takes off his clothes. He sits on the bed. He watches TV. He turns off the TV. He goes to sleep. He dreams.

Today I am not going to school. It is a holiday! Today I am not going to watch TV. There is no electricity anyway. What am I going to do? Today I am going to listen to my body! First, I have to be quiet. Very quiet.So that I can listen to my own body. Yes, now I can hear my breath.In... out... in... out... And I can make my breath noisier... Ssssssssssssss!And softer... Mmmmmmm. And now I can hear my heart beating!Doodom, doodoom, dooodooom. Can I make my heart go faster or louder?Yes, by jumping up and down twenty times. Now see, my heart is beating faster.Doodom, doodoom, dooodooom! And if I put my fingers on my wristthen I can hear my pulse! And I can hear myself laughingHaha haha haaah haaa! And cryingBoohooohooo! And clappingTap tappa tap tapaa. And most of all - I can hear my stomach rumblingGuddu guddu guddu... And sayingFeed me, feed me. And my nose can hear jalebis frying in mothers kitchen. It is fun listening to my body.And now I want to hear my jaws chewing. And my stomach slurping on mothers wonderful hot jalebis! Match the sounds with the part of the bodyHands - WhistleLips - Clap-clapFeet - Stomp-stomp

Where can I get water. There is some water in the pot. It is too hot. Can this water be cold.

Boran and his daughter are out for a walk. They come to a café, and go in. In the café the waiter shows them to a table. Boran orders a coffee. His daughter orders a soda. The waiter brings their order. He pours the soda into a glass. She drinks the soda. Boran puts sugar in his coffee. He stirs the coffee. He drinks it. Boran asks for the bill. He pays the waiter. Boran and his daughter leave the café.

Kicchu woke up early one morning.“It is time to catch some fish,” he said yawning. He met Choru on the way to the pond. They were best friends who played all day long. Munia saw them marching with their fishing rods.“We are going to the pond to catch fish. Come along Munia, if you wish.” Little Munia thought for sometime. “Please don't do that,” she said, “without water, the fish will die.” They did not listen to what Munia had to say. They headed to the pond straight away. Kicchu and Choru sat waiting by the pond. Two fish swam across, one thin and another round. Then came the third fish, the biggest one they had seen. Munia said laughing, “It is bigger than Appa's feet!” Kicchu and Choru held on tight to their rods.Kicchu screamed, “MY FISH!”Choru also screamed, “NO... MY FISH!” Kicchu pulled hard...Choru pulled harder... PHAAATTT! Both the rods broke.THUDDD! Kicchu fell to the ground.SSSPPLAASH! Choru fell into the water. What had happened?What do you think?The fish had tied up both the strings!

I am singing. She is waving. I am clapping. She is stretching. He is calling. I am answering. She is listening. What are you doing?

Carlos rides a scooter. He rides fast. There is water on the road. The road is slippery. He loses control of the scooter and falls off. Carlos is badly hurt. A woman calls for an ambulance. "There has been an accident. Come quickly!" The ambulance comes very quickly. Two men put Carlos on a stretcher. They lift Carlos into the ambulance. The ambulance drives to the hospital. A nurse takes Carlos into the hospital. She treats him. Carlos's leg hurts a lot, and he is worried. Two doctors operate on his leg. His parents visit him. They ask him how the accident happened. They drive him home. Carlos is using crutches.

Susheela lives in Tamil Nadu.She learnt to draw kolams from her mother. Every Pongal, she was allowed to make one kolam all by herself. Susheela loved to make kolams!She drew them on floors and steps and walls... ... on trains and on the sides of tall buildings... ... even on kites that skipped in the sky.Everyone admired Susheela's kolams! One day, the Air Force asked her to help them make a kolam!Susheela told the pilots how to dip, dive and turn their planes... ... and in minutes there was a big, beautiful and colourful kolam in the sky, that everyone in the city could see! That night, Susheela stood on her terrace and looked up at the sky. She saw the stars twinkling down at her.Where do you think Susheela will make her next kolam? Know more about Kolams...Kolams are beautiful patterns made freehand or by joining dots. People decorate the outside of their homes with kolams to welcome a new day. They are also thought to bring good luck. Traditionally, the powder used to make kolams is made out of rice flour.Kolams are also known as Moggu, Rangoli, Chowkpurna, Alpana and Hase Chittara. What do you call a kolam in your part of the country?

Where is my cat? Is it under the bed? Is it on top of the cupboard? Is it behind the couch? Is it next to the bin? Is it inside the basket? Is it outside the house? Here it is!

He washes his hands. He washes his face. He brushes his teeth. He shaves. He showers. He washes his hair. He dries himself. He combs his hair. He cuts his fingernails.

Pehelwaan ji! He drinks ten litres of milk everyday. He eats fifty rotis. He lifts weights of a hundred kilos. He walks with a swagger. He orders all the children about. One day, Gappu said, “Will you wrestle with me?” Pehelwaan ji laughed. And then agreed. Both of them slapped their thighs! Pehelwaan ji caught hold of Gappu. Gappu tickled him in the stomach. Hee...Heee...Heeee... Pehelwaan ji jumped! As Gappu tickled him, Pehelwaan ji began to dance. Ha...Ha...Hee...Hee...Hoo...Hoo...Pehelwaan ji rolled about helplessly. And he ran away. The kids are not scared of him any more. He is scared of them.

This is the giraffe. It has a verylong neck. It eats leaves fromtall trees. What colour is thegiraffe? This is the elephant. The males have whitetusks. They have large ears. Elephants havelong trunks that they use to pick leaves off thetall trees. Elephants eat grasses and leaves.What colour is the elephant? This is the crocodile. It lives inthe rivers and lakes. It has along tail. It can open its widemouth to eat fish and otheranimals. What colour is thecrocodile? This is the lion. He has big teethwhich he uses to catch his food.The male lions have amane.Where is the mane onthis lion? This is the crested crane. It isthe symbol of Uganda. It haslong legs and a crown. Whatcolour is the crested crane? This is the water buffalo. It eats grasses andlives near rivers and lakes. What are the thingson the top of its head called? These animals are calledzebras. They have black andwhite strips. What otheranimals look like a zebra? Here are two different animals. Here is amother warthog with her babies. Warthogshave tusks too. Which animal looks like thewarthog? The other animal is the cob. It eatsgrasses. What colour is the cob? What are these two animal friends? Where dothey live? Which one would you eat?

There was a man calledNsangabisibe. This man had a son. The son'sname was Mudduawulira. One day the man said to hisson, "Let's go for a walk." On the way, they saw a verynice suitcase. It was packed full. The man got very excited. Hesaid to Mudduawulira, "Pick itup and we will take it home." The son did what the father toldhim to do. Mudduawulira putthe suitcase on his head andcarried it. On the way home, a snakeslithered out of the suitcase. Itlanded on Mudduawulira's feet! Father and son were both veryscared. Mudduawulira droppedthe suitcase. They ran awayvery fast!

Mai searches for a film to watch. She wants to go to the cinema with her best friend, Lisa. Mai takes her scooter to the cinema. They have agreed to meet there. At the cinema they say hello. They are excited to see the film. Mai buys tickets for both of them at the ticket counter. She also buys a big bucket of popcorn. Lisa takes the popcorn while Mai buys two bottles of soda. They show their tickets before they go inside to watch the film. They look for their seats. It is dark because the film has already started. They sit down to watch the film. It is a romantic film. That is their favourite kind. After the film they say goodbye and go home.

Sister, sister, I wonder...What do you wonder, little brother,What do you wonder?I wonder, I wonder,Where the sun goes at night.Where do you think, little brother,Where do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother,What do you think? I thinkThat maybe, a demon.The terrible black demonOf DarknessEats up the sun each nightFor dinner.See how the blue sky, at sunset,Is stained red with his blood? But the sunThe glorious brave shining golden sunHe fights the Darkness demonAll night, every nightAnd by morning,He's whole again and back to rule.That's where I think the sun goes at night.Into the mouth of a monsterAfter a terrible fight.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Oh yes you are, little brother, oh yes you areAnd maybe you are right, too...But in the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,What do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother, what do you think? I thinkThat maybe, while it is nightHere on earth,It is a glorious day inThe ocean's darkest depths.And the mermaids come dancing outOf their undersea cavesTo frolic with the sharks. We have seen it ourselvesWhen we went to Mumbai last summer.RememberHow the sun lets go of the skyEach evening at duskAnd slides soundlessly into the sea?That's were I think the sun goes at nightTo flood the underwaterWith golden light.I'm clever, aren't I sister? Of course you are, little brother,Of course you areAnd maybe you are right, too...But in the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,What do you think? I think, I think...Tell me, little brother, what do you think?I thinkThat maybe there is no mystery.That maybe the sun is just like Father.He goes home tired each nightAfter a long dayAt work. And his wife, like Mother,Fusses over him, shushes the kids,Covers him with a night-darkblanket of stars,And hopes his snoringwill not keep her awake all night. And every morning, the sunShrugs off his star-blanket,Paints the dawn sky red with his sleepy eyesAnd gets back to work.That's where I think the sun goes at night.Home to bed until it is light.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? I know you are, little brother, I know you are,And maybe you're right, too...But in the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?Come here, little brother,I'll tell you what they said.They said, they said...Tell me, sister, what did they say? They saidThat the earth is like a ballThat the ball goes around the sunSpinning like the red topMother got you from the Saturday market,But slower. And they saidEvery spin of the earthIs as long as a dayAnd a night.I asked about the sun, sister,I asked about the sun.I am coming to that, little brother,Be patient now. They saidWhen our part of the earthThe half where we liveIs turned towards the sunWe have day.And when the other halfIs turned towards the sunAnd oursIs turned awayWe have night. They saidThat's where the sun goes at nightTo bathe the other half in glorious light.Can it be true, sister, can it be true?I can't say, little brother, I can't say.But in all the books that I have readThat is what they said.FIND OUT MORE!Where does the sun go at night?The earth is a sphere that revolves around the sun, along with the seven other planets of the solar system. One revolution of the earth around the sun takes one calendar year.While it is going around the sun, the earth also spins on its own axis. Each ‘spin' takes 24 hours, that is, a day and a night.Whichever part of the earth is facing the sun has day. At the same time, the other half of the earth (the part turned away from the sun) has night. Then the earth slowly spins around and the half that was in darkness (that is, the half that was turned away from the sun) now faces the sun. So this half has day, and the other half, which turned away from the sun has night. So, in reality, the sun does not really go anywhere at night!Try this experiment!To understand how the earth's rotation causes day and night, try this simple exercise.You need:A small rubber ballA big torchSome felt pensA friendWhat to do:Imagine that the rubber ball is the earth. Using the felt pens, draw the map of the world on the rubber ball. Now, imagine that the torch is the sun. Ask your friend to switch on the torch.Place the ball (the earth) directly in the path of the torch beam (sunlight), so that India is facing the sun. Turn the ball around slowly. What do you see? When India is facing the sun, the Americas are in darkness.As India begins to turn away from the sun, Europe and Africa come into the ‘sunlight'. Then, as the ‘earth' continues to turn, the Americas come into the light and India becomes dark.Keep turning the ball till India faces the sun again. This is what happens every time the earth turns around on its axis. During each rotation, India (and every other place on earth) has one day and one night.

Today is Vasant Panchami. My parents say it is the first day of spring. Spring is the season between winter and summer. It is called Vasant Ritu in Sanskrit. In many parts of India, people pray to the goddess of learning, music and art on this day. Many birds are sitting on the tree near my house. I think they are singing to me. The leaves on the tree are new and shiny. Just like my new frock. Amma is also wearing a yellow sari ― such a pretty colour ‘basanti', and such a pretty name! Grandpa wants me to plant a tree.“But why?” I ask.“So that you will have a friend to grow up with, Meenu,” he says. “Spring is a good season to start something new.” We go to the garden. Grandpa and I dig a hole in the ground and plant a sapling. “How tall will it grow?” I ask him. "Wait and watch, dear Meenu!" he says. The squirrels are chasing each other. Tingu, the cat, chases a squirrel. And I want to chase Tingu. The garden is full of flowers.I like the yellow roses the best and Grandpa likes the white jasmine. There is a carpet of leaves under some trees. Many trees have flowers.I like spring!Everything looks so pretty in spring! Tomorrow is Holi. School is closed for two days. We have made a huge Holika with twigs, and pieces of wood.Some of us went to the forest and brought tesu flowers. Manu put the flowers in a tank of water. The water has turned a bright orange! Tomorrow we will play Holi with the orange water. We will get gujia and puris to eat.Spring is such a happy season. It is not cold, it is not hot, and it is not wet.I can play all the time!

The alarm rings. It is time to get up. She gets up. She goes to the bathroom. She brushes her teeth. She rinses her mouth. She takes a shower and washes her hair. She dries herself with a towel. She gets dressed. She puts on a skirt and a blouse. She picks up her handbag. She takes her handbag and leaves for work. She walks to work. She arrives at work. She works in an office.

I live in a village inUganda calledKiwangala.It is a very nice village. The children in the village like to goto school.We like our teachers. We like to to read at school.We like to count numbers.1,2,3,4,5! We like to play with our friends. Weplay like to kick the ball. We like to eat bananas in ourvillage. We like to run after the pigs. We like to play with our friends.

“Anuuuu! Wake up! Sleepyhead!” called Anu's mother.“Mmmm...let me sleep!” mumbled Anu.“Ok, then I'll go see Aunty Jui's baby by myself,” said Aai*.*Aai, Marathi for mother Anu sat up like a shot.“Baby? Is it a teeny-tiny baby? Like a doll? Wait for me, I'm coming!” Anu got ready in a jiffy.She gulped down her milk without a fuss.She didn't even cry when her mother combed her hair. The moment Anu entered Aunty's house she shouted, “Aunty! Where is the baby?”“Shhhh...” said Aunty Jui, with her finger on her lips. “Softly. The baby is sleeping.”Sleeping? What a bore. Anu began to sulk. Aai pulled Anu close. “The baby is still very small, Anu. You must not trouble her. After all, you are her big sister!”Big sister! Anu felt very important. But why did the baby have to go to sleep? Just then they heard a thin wail...“She is up,” said Aunty, and gave the baby to Aai.“I want to hold the baby,” said Anu.“Oh no, Anu. You won't be able to. You're much too small,” said Aai.“But I'm her big sister,” said Anu. Why should the baby sit on Aai's lap? I want to sit on Aai's lap too, thought Anu. But Aai said, “Anu, move away! You must not bother baby. See how tiny she is?” The baby was still wailing. “Waah...”“Oh dear!” said Aunty. “I think she's soiled her nappy.”She cleaned the baby and changed her nappy.The baby gurgled happily. Anu was disgusted. What a silly baby. Potty in the nappy!And Aai and Aunty were mad! They didn't even scold the baby. If I just pee in my underwear by mistake, Aai glares at me. But now look at her doing ‘kootchie-coo!' to the baby! Wait till I get home. I'll tell Baba how unfair Aai is. “Let's go home, Aai!” Anu cried.“Why, Anu, don't you like the baby?” asked Aunty. “Chee!” said Anu.“Silly baby, does potty in the nappy, doesn't talk, doesn't play. I don't like your baby. Why did you get yourself such a silly baby?” On the way back home, Anu asked her mother, “Aai, when will I become a baby?”“You won't become a baby again, “ said Aai. “You'll grow bigger now.”“I don't want to be big! I want to be a baby and I want to sleep in your lap, and I want to drink milk with a spoon and I want to sit on Baba's shoulders and go out and...”Anu muttered all the way home. The next day Aai said, ”Anu, let's give your small clothes, toys and cradle to Aunty Jui's baby, shall we?” “No!” yelled Anu. “That's my ball and my cradle!”“Okay, what about giving away these clothes then? They're so small,” said Aai.“No!” shouted Anu again. “I want to wear them, NOW!” So Aai put the small frock on Anu. She even put the little baby bonnet on her head. Anu crawled all over the house.She balanced the ball on her head and wandered around, calling, ‘Curd! Fresh curd!' She played with the rattle: rat-a-tat-tat. Anu climbed into the cradle. She wanted to lie down and suck her thumb.But she didn't fit! Her feet stuck out at one end, and she couldn't keep her arms straight. The tight little frock began to pinch. Anu was fed up. This was no fun at all! Anu said to her mother, “Aai, why don't we give this frock and bonnet and cradle to Aunty Jui's baby?”“Give it all away? But then what will you do?” asked Aai.“Aai, I'm a big sister now, aren't I? Once you become a big sister you wear proper clothes, and sleep on the bed.”“Oh really? I had no idea!” said Aai, smiling.Anu wore her own clothes and said, “Aai, tell baby that her big sister has given her all this. You'll tell her, won't you?”Anu jumped on to her scooter and went off to play.

First, he sweeps the floor with a broom. Then he vacuums. The vacuum cleaner works well. Then he gets a bucket of water and a mop. He mops the floor. He empties the bin and puts a new bag in it. He takes out the rubbish. He needs gloves, a sponge, and some cleaner. He scrubs a dirty spot on the floor with the sponge and some of the cleaner. Then he cleans the window. His living room is very messy. He tidies up. Now it is nice and clean.

Mother was finishing packingher clothes in a small bag. As she went out the door, shehugged me and said, "Bye fornow." "Where are you going, mum?" Ilooked up at her as I asked. I started to cry wanting tofollow her but dad lifted me upon his shoulder. Dad said, "Your mother is goingto the hospital to have a baby." When I heard "baby" I stoppedcrying and looked at him."Why is she going to get thebaby from the hospital?" Iasked him. Dad sat me on a small chair andsaid, "I will tell you why she isgoing to get the baby from thehospital." I listened keenly to him as he explained although I didn'tquite understand why she wasn't having the baby at home.When dad finished explaining, I asked, "Will she still loveme when she comes back with the other baby?" My dad held me close and said,"We will always love you." "Can I write a letter to her whileshe is there?" I asked dad. That evening, I began to write aletter to mum. I tore a paper from my exercisebook and began to write... "Mummy, mummy, dad saidthat you have gone to bringanother baby... ...Please hurry up and returnhome... ...I want you to bring a babygirl, so I can play with her whenshe grows up... ...You can bring two so one canbe mine... ...I am waiting for you hereoutside our house." I folded my letter so I could giveit to my father to bring it tomum.When I woke up the followingmorning, the letter was gone.

This is a girl calledNorah.Her doll's name isSelah. Norah loves her dollvery much.Norah plays with Selahevery day.She sleeps with her dollevery night. One day, Norah couldnot find her doll.She looked everywhere,but could not findSelah.Norah got very worried. Norah did not know thather mother took Selahfor washing.She hung the dolloutside to dry. "I can't find my doll,"cried Norah."Don't worry," said hermother. That evening, Norah'smother gave the doll toNorah.The doll was very clean.Selah looked like a newdoll! Norah was very happy.She jumped up anddown.She danced.She laughed loudly. And she thanked hermother.

It was a holiday for Amma. She was reading a book. Anil had a holiday too. He wanted to do.... SOMETHING!“Amma, I want to see what is in that blue box!” said Anil.“Later, Anil,” said Amma. Anil put a stool over a chair. He climbed up to get the box down.“No, no! Not that one! All the boxes on top of that will fall on our heads, Anil!” said Amma. Anil was very angry. He was angry with his mother. “Come, let's go to the market and get you something,” said Amma. Anil was very angry even after they went to the market.“I want that one!” he said, pointing at an orange.“No, no, not that one! The fruits will all fall down!” said the shopkeeper. “I want that book!” said Anil.“No, no, not that one!” said the shopkeeper.“Take this one.” “I want that one!” shouted Anil, almost pulling out a samosa from a high stack of samosas.“No, no, not that one!” warned the shopkeeper.“All my samosas will fall to the ground!” “I want that one!” said Anil loudly. He was now in a very, very bad mood.“No, no, not that one!” said the flower seller. “Don't touch them! They will wilt.” By now, Anil was crying loudly. Everyone was looking at Anil. “I want that one! The black one!” said Amma loudly.Anil stopped crying suddenly.“Amma, no, no! Not that one!” said Anil. “Let's take this brown one!” said Anil. Then Anil gently lifted the brown puppy on top of a pile of puppies.“Amma, I am very angry with you! All the puppies would have fallen down!”Amma smiled. Anil was smiling too. He was not angry at all now.

My name is Malik and I am 39 years old. I was born in Afghanistan. My religion is different from the main religion in Afghanistan. For many years, people who belong to my religion have been persecuted. This has been very difficult for my family. A few years ago there was a war. I was afraid I would be killed. I left my family to go to Europe and start a new life. I walked for many kilometres. Sometimes I had no food and nowhere to stay. Some of the people I travelled with died. Finally I arrived. I met some people from my own country who helped me. I do not know what I would have done without them. I started to learn the language, but it was hard. I knew that speaking the language was important to get a job. I studied for several years, at first to learn the language. It was hard, but I enjoy learning new things. After studying I started working. First I worked in a restaurant, and then I became a teacher because I want to help others. I hope to go back to Afghanistan one day. Many people there need help, and I want to help them.

My name is Agostino and I am 51 years old. My job is delivering food by bicycle. I have two daughters, but we hardly ever speak. Their mother and I no longer live together because we are divorced. I live with my mother, as I cannot afford to pay rent after the divorce. Rent is very expensive in this city. A few months ago I was working as a janitor for a company. I repaired things that were broken, carried boxes, and helped when anyone needed it. One day the company fired me. I did not understand why. I saw many people delivering food by bicycle. I can ride a bicycle, so I knocked on the door of a big delivery company. They offered me three euros for each delivery. I make 40€ per day, 60€ if I am very lucky and the customers tip me. I get no paid holiday, no sick pay, hardly any rights at all. I do not think that is right, but I need the job. Most of the other employees are immigrants from all over the world. Many delivery people are injured in accidents every day. Then, when a 25-year-old deliveryman was hit by a car and died, the authorities started noticing us. It is a shame he had to die before that happened. Together with delivery people from other companies, I took a course on workers' rights with a local union. They offered us legal advice free of charge. We struggled to get more recognition and rights. After a long time all our hard work paid off. One big delivery company had to pay a huge fine and to give workers permanent jobs. It was the first time that had happened anywhere in the whole world. It looks like things are starting to improve.

We have just taken out our winter uniforms for school. It is not so cold yet. Winter is called Shishira Ritu in Sanskrit. I love to eat hot things in this season. Amma took us to the Groundnut Fair yesterday. There were big hills of groundnuts on both sides of the road near the Bull Temple in Bengaluru. Dry nuts, boiled and salted nuts, roasted nuts! Amma says people in Gujarat have a Ponkh festival in winter. Farmers roast bundles of millet on coal stoves. Everyone eats the fresh, green, plump and tender beads of millet grains called ponkh. I wore a bright blue sweater to the fair. There were many stalls all along the road. Manu wanted to go on the merry-go-round. I wanted to buy grandma a warm, soft shawl. It is so cold now. I rub my hands together as I walk to school. My new red bangles make a pretty sound! Oh, how nice, I say aloud and I can see a frosty cloud in front of my mouth as I talk! My friend Rajni lives in Shimla. In her grandfather's village, they pack snow into bamboo baskets to make cone shaped snow heaps on roof tops. Then the children go to take the blessings of all the elders. Rajni also told me about the Snowman Competition. In Srinagar, they say “Nausheen Mubaraq!” when the first snow falls. They wrap some snowflakes in a sheet of paper and send it to a friend. The friend has to throw a feast for you after that! I would love to play in the snow and have a feast of naan and rogan josh too. Rajni says that the trees look lovely when they are covered with snow. Everybody likes to drink hot tea and she likes to drink milk with jaggery. They can't go out without their jackets, caps, gloves and mufflers, but it is fun to throw snowballs at each other, she says! During the next winter holidays I hope I can go to Shimla or to Jaisalmer. In Jaisalmer, there is no snow, only sand.I would like to go to the Desert Fair and ride on camels, watch folk dances and puppet shows, and take part in the turban tying contest! Soon we will be celebrating Sankranti. Janu says her family makes tilgud. Rohan says his family makes yellu. Narsi says he has chigdi during the Sankranti season. Do you know, all these are made with sesame seeds and jaggery! They must be good for our health in the winter.I like winter. I like it when my friends hug me. I like to snuggle in the chair next to Granny and read a book. My tree will never be covered with snow. But I want it to be full of birds and mangoes and squirrels and parrots very soon.

One harsh winter, many people in the land were sick. MaMonikazi's cheeks burned. Sweat dripped from her body. Shewanted to hold the icy grass to her face to cool down. Under herblanket she held her belly and sang to the baby inside her: "Bestrong, little one. Winter's not long. Be brave, little one. Togetherwe're strong!"Her stomach growled when the baby's powerful kicks woke her atnight. She ate the leftover meat in the cooking pot, hungry for life.One bright night the moon wasbigger, fatter and pinker than ever.Her breath came fast. The baby wasready. The aunties in the birthingroom rubbed her back and warmedthe water. When Monikazi held herbeautiful daughter in her arms, sheknew she was a special girl, afighter.What a blessing! Her name isNontsikelelo. She will be the motherof all blessings. Nontsikelelo was beautiful andstrong with crinkling black buttoneyes. She loved her older brother,Mcengi. He made her laugh and sothe laughter spread. She loved toeat meat before she had teeth. Herfavourite aunt always kept a littleportion on the side of her plate forNtsiki. Mcengi chased the chickensthat scratched in the garden whereMa Monikazi grew spinach andsquash to feed her family. Ntsiki ranafter him as her legs grew strong.Ma Monikazi had another baby boy, Velaphi, and another,Qudalele. Finally another sister, Nomyaleko. Little Ntsiki foldednapkins and washed the baby clothes. She swept the house andfed the fire. She picked up her baby brother when he cried andtickled him till he laughed.She taught them to sing: "Be strong, little one. Winter is gone. Bebrave, little one. Together we're strong!" Qingqiwe, her grandfather, raisedhorses. His favourite was Shishi, aglossy black mare. As soon as Ntsikiwas old enough, he hoisted her onto the saddle in front of him. Hisstrong arms reached around her. Helaced the reins through her fingers.He taught her to talk softly toShishi, to groom her with a hardbristled brush. When she stroked itsglossy coat, Albertina whispered,"You are the most beautifulcreature. Thank you for letting meride on your back."Her father, Bonilizwe, came home from the mines at Christmas.Ntsiki pulled herself up onto Shishi's broad back. She rode out tomeet him at the bus stop. Ntsiki sat tall and straight. Herknees held firm. She handled the reins with gentle fingers.How proud Bonilizwe was of his daughter. The biggest smile Ntsikihad ever seen covered her father's face. On her sixth birthday she went toschool. "You must choose an Englishname," said the Presbyterianteacher, but Ntsiki liked her ownname. "Why do I need a newname?" she asked. The teacherscowled and read the names aloud:"Adah, Agnes, Albertina, Anna."What did they mean? Ntsiki likedthe long name best.Al-ber-ti-na! The name had rhythm.Al-ber-ti-na! The name had bounce.Albertina was a name you didn'tmess with.When her cousin married a handsome man from a nearby town,Albertina was chosen as an umkhapi. The maid of honour! Weeksbefore the wedding, she stitched her isikhakha, the shorttraditional skirt, and threaded bright beads onto her amatikiti. Hermother gave her the white flag and said, "You have a big job, myblessing."At the bend in the road Albertina waved the flag, then turnedShishi back, leading everybody from miles around to theceremony. People would gossip if she made a mistake, but theguests lined the road. They ululated and sang. They threw downflowers for the horse and the girl. Her mother was often sick andneeded Albertina to look after thehome. In her last year of primaryschool, Albertina was the oldestpupil in the school. She was chosento be the head girl and wore herbadge with pride.Her best friend, Betty, told herabout a competition, saying, "Youmust apply, my clever friend.""What is the prize?" askedAlbertina, growing curious."A scholarship to high school!" said Betty. "You must apply. You'llwin it, for sure."Albertina studied until the candle burned down. She practisedsums. She practised spelling. She sharpened her pencils and gaveher shoes an extra shine. Next morning she passed Shishi in herpaddock. The horse whinnied and stamped the ground. The test began. Albertina's fingersshook. The sums were tricky. Hermouth went dry. Her hand crampedon her pencil but she continued."Well done, Albertina!" said herteacher at the end. The importantofficial arrived and called the toptwo students to the stage. "Welldone to Albertina for full marks," hesaid, "but you are too old. Thescholarship goes to..."Albertina tried not to cry. "That's unfair," shouted Betty, hoppingwith fury. "That wasn't in the rules!" How would Albertina go tohigh school now? She dragged her feet all the way home.The teacher wrote to the newspaper about the unfair decision.Brother Joe at the Catholic Mission station read the story over hisbreakfast. He cracked his boiled egg with an extra flourish. Hepushed the newspaper across the table to Father Bernard. Hedidn't like the story one bit either. Soon enough there was ascholarship for Albertina. Mariazellnear Matatiele was a long way fromXolobe, but the whole villageerupted. Their home girl was off tohigh school. She would make themproud. They threw a party like noother. The women brewed thesorghum beer and lit the fires. Theyslaughtered chickens and stirred uppots of meat. Albertina smiled tillher face ached.She packed her brown suitcase and polished her shoes again.Before setting off on the bus toMatatiele, she said goodbye to Shishi. Albertina brushed her coatand stroked her wiry mane. She whispered all her questions intothe horse's silky ear: What if I get lost? Will I make new friends?Will I still be clever so far from home? Shishi whinnied andstamped the ground.School days started well before sunrise. The girls washed quicklyin the cold water and swept the dormitories before Mass. The milkyporridge was never quite enough; the stew not as tasty as Aunty'sback home. But Albertina studied hard. She played netball onsunny afternoons.In her school holidays Albertina worked at the mission station. Sherubbed and scrubbed against the zinc washboard. She boiledsheets in copper tubs, then wound them through the wringer. Shehoed and tilled the school garden but missed her family. Who wastelling her brothers and sisters funny stories? Who wiped theireyes when they cried? Who tickled them until they laughed? Albertina loved the nuns who taughther. Could she become a holysister?"But nuns earn no salary," saidFather Bernard. "Perhaps youshould become a nurse? You'll bepaid while you study." Albertina took a train toJohannesburg. She bought a smartwhite uniform, new navy shoes anda shiny red fountain pen. Sickpeople came all day to the hospital.She cleaned their wounds withcareful fingers. She held the oldpeople gently. When the babiescried, she sang: "Be strong, littleone. Winter's not long. Be brave,little one. Together we're strong!Some nights Albertina worked till dawn. She looked out the windowand thought of her family. Were the children hungry? Did they goto school? Who was riding Shishi? She remembered the dark greenspinach. She missed the scent of the earth. There was novegetable garden here. There was nowhere for a horse.Albertina never went to parties. She saved every shilling. On herdays off she learned to play tennis. Whoosh! Plop! She whackedthe ball across the net. Always, she wished for a little more moneyto send home. Walter Sisulu was a brave andclever man who dreamed offreedom for South Africa. His bigsmile captured Albertina's eye.They walked together down the citystreets. Her delicate hand rested onhis arm. Walter wanted Albertina tobe the mother of his children.Bright ribbons decorated the Bantu Men's Social Centre on theirwedding day. Albertina's long-sleeved dress had a swirling train oflace. Many friends blessed their special day. Albertina plantedflowers in her little garden. Within a year, Max was born. Albertinahad become a mother. One day people would call her the motherof the nation.Max had his mother's black button eyes and his father's roundchin. He was the hope for their future. Albertina wanted to fight fora new South Africa, so that Max could be free. When he cried, shesang: "Be strong, little one. Winter's not long. Be brave, little one.Together we're strong!" Police came in the middle of thenight, banging on the door.Albertina scolded the men whomessed up her house. "How rudeyou are!" she said, "trampling mudinside my home."In the morning Albertina's favourite flowers lay crushed beneaththeir footprints. She remembered chasing the chickens from hervegetable garden back in Xolobe and set about replanting hergarden. The earth, she knew, would recover.She would support her husband who kept many secrets and hidfrom the police.She joined the women and worked to organise a march to Pretoria.The women refused to carry a pass. They sang, "Wathint' abafazi;wathint' imbokodo! You strike a woman; you strike a rock!"Many hard years followed after Walter's arrest. He was jailed onRobben Island for 26 years. Albertina, also, was sent to jail manytimes. Often she was scared. Often she was lonely. But even on the darkest nights, shecould see a sliver of moon throughthe window in her cell. She sang thesong that Ma Monikazi sang beforeshe was born: "Be strong, little one.Winter's not long. Be brave, littleone. Together we're strong!"

Selamawit is 29 years old. She gave birth to her first child in Eritrea. She and her family had a hard time there, so they decided to go to Italy. Inga left home just before she turned 19. She moved to Norway and had her first child there. When Selamawit became pregnant with her second child, she wondered what it would be like to have a child in a different country. Selamawit and Inga come from different backgrounds. Selamawit felt safe because she had experience with giving birth. Inga talked to her mother about giving birth. Both women had heard that, in most European countries, pregnant women have the right to antenatal care. This means that they will get help during their pregnancies. Selamawit made an appointment with her doctor as soon as she realised she was pregnant. Selamawit's husband drove her to the doctor. The doctor did some tests and found out that Selamawit had a kind of diabetes that some pregnant women get. She had to eat healthy food and exercise. Selamawit was glad she went to the doctor early, before she and her baby became ill. When Inga's neighbour heard that she was trying to have a baby, the neighbour told her to see a doctor as soon as she was pregnant. That way she could make sure that she and her baby were healthy. The doctor told her to take folic acid, a vitamin that is important for pregnant women. Inga and her doctor agreed that she would meet a midwife for regular check-ups during her pregnancy. The midwife gave her advice on food and rest, and information on how to keep herself and her baby safe and well. Both women gave birth to healthy babies. Selamawit had another son, while Inga had a daughter. Their husbands were very proud, and they told everyone they knew about their strong wives and healthy children.

The rains have stopped. But winter is not here yet. This season is called Autumn. It is called Sharat Ritu in Sanskrit. Aksheeee! I have a cold. The change in the weather seems to make so many people ill. Granny says all children will be well before Dasara. There are so many festivals during this season. Manu has plucked leaves from my mango tree to make a 'Toranam' to put on our front door. I think our toranam is the best in the whole world! The sky is so blue now. And there are bright, white clouds that look like cotton balls. Everything seems so calm. Tonight, we are going to celebrate Sharat Poornima. The festival is also called Khojagiri.The full moon will make everything around us look like silver. We will stay awake all night. We will drink hot kheer made of white things like coconut, rice and milk. Meera is celebrating Onam today. It is a festival of joy. Her family has made a beautiful Pookalam, a rangoli using flowers. She says this is the time of the year when the crops have been cut and there is enough grain for everyone. It is a happy time.It is the time when the famous boat races of Kerala are held. What a fun! I feel like celebrating too. Dasara holidays are here. In Tamil Nadu, people love to set up a Navaratri Golu, which is a display of dolls on three to nine steps. During this festive season, Manu and I are going to start learning Indian classical music. I want to play the Mrudangam.Mru-dan-gam! Dham! Dham! Dham!Manu wants to learn to play the flute. And Amma wants to learn to ride the scooter! Deepavali will also come soon. In the dark, moonless night, all the houses will look so pretty when they are lit up with diyas and candles. Some people put electric lights that go on and off! I like to burst crackers too. But our teacher says that crackers are bad for the air. He says if we don't take care of the water, air and land, then the seasons will all change after some years. I wonder how that will happen! It is getting colder. This season just after Sharat Ritu is called Hemant Ritu in Sanskrit, says granny. It is a short season in India. Winter will be here soon.

When I was five years old, myuncle gave me a wonderfulpresent.It was a three-week-old puppy!The day my uncle brought thepuppy home, I was very happy.I knew I had a friend. After putting him down, myuncle turned to me and asked,"What name will you give him?"I looked at my puppy, and said,"Coco."My uncle was surprised.He asked, "Why do you call himCoco?"I said, "Because he looks likecocoa." I asked my uncle if Coco was born alone.My uncle said that there was another puppy,exactly like Coco.I went to see Coco's brother. When Coco saw his brother, hewas very excited.The two of them put their headstogether as if they were talking. I asked my uncle if I could keepboth Coco and his brother."All right," he said. "But youmust look after them."So every evening, I played withthem and took them forexercise. A few months later, Coco andhis brother were big, strong andhealthy.They were too big for me tolook after on my own. So I asked my uncle to takeback Coco's brother.But when Coco was left alone,he looked very sad.It felt as if he was asking me,"Why did you do that?" He stopped playing.Sometimes he refused to go fora walk with me.There were times when Cocoate very little.I was worried.I asked myself, "What can I doto help Coco?" Then one day my uncle came to visit.When I heard his voice, I rushed out of the house.Before I could see him, I heard the barking of dogs. Behind the kitchen, dancinghappily before me were Cocoand his brother! I was so happy that I did notknow who to hug first, Coco ormy uncle.I knew Coco would go back tohis old self now that his brotherwas back.We would go running in thefields again!

Tom has a toothache. His tooth hurts very much. He needs to see his dentist, but first he needs something for the pain. He drives to the nearest pharmacy. "I have a toothache," he says. "Do you have anything for that?" "Yes, here are some painkillers. You don't need a prescription for these." "Thank you. How much do they cost?" "They cost nine euros. But you should see a dentist." "Okay, I will call my dentist tomorrow morning." "If you need stronger medicine, you will need to get a prescription from your dentist or doctor." "Thank you! Goodbye."

I can see big, black clouds in the sky and I can hear BADABOOM, the roll of thunder.The monsoon is here. It is called Varsha Ritu in Sanskrit. I love the smell of wet earth. After a long hot summer, the soil also loves the first raindrops I think. The rain makes beautiful patterns on the ground. My uncle has kept big drums in some places to save rain water. The rain water from the terrace comes and falls into these drums. So I call them waterfalls! Aunty likes to sing aloud when it starts raining. Shubha aunty who lives in Varanasi, taught me some lovely songs called ‘Kajari'.Do you know, Miyan Tansen, a very famous singer in the court of Emperor Akbar, could bring the rain down from the skies just by singing a song in raag ‘Miyan ki Malhar!'I am going to start learning Indian classical music too. I got wet in the rain when I came running back from school, but it was fun. I saw peacocks dancing in the fields near our house. They never seem to get wet!I cannot wait to sit on the swing that Manu has put up on the big tree, and feel the cool rainy breeze on my face. I can smell the pakodas being fried in the kitchen. Can I be greedy and eat some corn too? Amma makes us drink hot milk.Yesterday, she had made spicy puffed rice. And tomorrow, she says she will make puris! All the trees and plants will look green and happy. Just like the green dupatta that Hari bhaiya sent for me from Jaipur. He said it is called a ‘dhaani chunariya.'‘Dhaani' means the fresh green colour of paddy saplings. Grandpa told me that good rain means the farmers will get a good crop. We all wait for the rains, but farmers worship the rain gods. My mango tree has grown very tall during the monsoon season. I do not have to water it at all! And when the wind blew hard last month, my tree stood firm. When will my mango tree be as big as this one?

I was born in summer, in a towncalled Matatiele in the EasternCape. Matatiele is near Lesothowhere there are many mountains. Inthe winter they are covered withsnow. My father was a builder and hemoved from place to place to findwork. We moved to Lesotho andthat's where I started school. I wasvery happy. But when I was elevenyears old, I grew tired and weak,and then I couldn't walk. My parentstook me to the hospital. I had to stay in hospital for threeyears. I was very tired and I sleptmany hours every day. After threeyears the doctors told me I wouldnot be able to walk again.I was very sad because I lovesports. I went to a special school in Umtata,and my teachers encouraged me. Itwas a very busy school, with lots ofactivities like sport and sewing. Onweekends we had tasks to do. Wehad to clean our rooms, polish ourshoes and clean our wheelchairs. I decided to keep trying, and nevergive up. If you have a disability, youcan still do something you love. Ilove to see how far I can go, so Ientered a competition. I won abronze medal for shot putt, a silvermedal for discus and a gold medalfor javelin. I wanted to get better and better atmy sports, so I trained very hard. When I rested, I loved to sew andlisten to gospel music. I entered more competitions and Igot many medals and prizes. Istarted to dream about maybecompeting in the Paralympics oneday. The Paralympics are just like theOlympics, where the best athletesin the world compete for gold, silverand bronze medals.But in the Paralympics, the athletesare disabled in different ways, sothey have to try even harder totrain and win! Then I heard that I was going toSydney in Australia, to take part inthe 2000 Paralympics. At last wewere in the plane, flying over theIndian Ocean! But when I got there, I suddenly feltvery scared of all the peoplewatching me. I just wanted to gohome again. Then, when I threw my javelin itlanded far in front of everyone's. Ibroke the world record and I got agold medal! I was the first Africanwoman to win a gold medal in theParalympics. I was so happy andvery proud. My motto is: Keep going, follow yourdreams and never give up. Even ifsomething happens to make yousad or scared.That is what I teach my little girl,Azamazi. She is eight years old andshe also loves to do athletics andgymnastics.I am still training and going tocompetitions, and in 2016 I hope togo to the Paralympics in Rio deJaneiro.

He is eating pizza. It is tasty. She is eating chicken. It is spicy. He eats rice every day. She likes vegetables. She does not eat meat. She is a vegetarian. He does not eat peanuts. He is allergic to them. They are cooking. It smells good!

I am Goloo the circle.Everyone likes me.You can find meeverywhere, any time! The sun looks like me.When it's too hot,you need an umbrella which alsolooks like half of me. At night, the moonlooks like me with a smile.I look at it throughthe owl's round eyes. Huge watermelons, apples, oranges, tomatoes,even the tiny lemons - all look like me... and mithai!Juicy rasgullas, syrupy gulabjamuns, lovely laddus...are among the many sweets that look like me. Animals want me to decorate them.The cheetah, the chital deer,have me all over their skin.I'm there on ladybirds and butterflies too! In the playground,I'm there as a ball,a hoopla ring andmany other joyful games! Why, your trucks,aeroplanes, cars, cycles,would not be able to move...if it weren't for me. And yet there is one place where I am not welcome.On your report card! Sorry friends!I also feel sad when that happens.You will have to work hard to change that!

Yayeri the great onewakes up very earlyevery morning.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She is grateful for thenight past.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She prepares her bedvery well.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She greets her parentsand grandparents.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She cleans her facewith blue soap.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She brushes her teethwith the lughanotoothbrush.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She takes a cold waterbath.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She puts on her orangeschool uniform.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She puts on her blackshoes.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She hurries to herschool at Mbala.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She studies Science,Social Studies andMathematics.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?" She sings, and dancesotamenhaibuga, andplays football.We ask ourselves, "Whyis Yayeri great?"

This is my family. This is my father. This is my mother. My wife's name is Mona. I have two children. My son is five years old. My daughter is only two years old.

I live in Kakuma village, a very hotdry place, full of thorny trees, andmore goats than people.Even the market place is quiet, withonly a few small shops. Most peopleuse bicycles for transport. One morning my mother called me and said, "Etabo,today you turn six years old. We have a present foryou.""What is it? What is it?" I asked eagerly."Tomorrow we're going by bus to the market inEldoret," she replied, "And we're taking you with us!"My first visit to the city! I was so excited that I couldhardly sleep that night. The next day at the Kakuma busstop, I stood between my motherand my aunt in my new pair of bluejeans and red T-shirt.I felt very small between my tallslender mother and my big roundaunt. The bus was very full, so I had to siton my mother's lap.Tired from the heat and excitement,I slept the whole way and sawnothing. The sun was just rising when we reached Eldoretmarket.At the entrance was a woman selling grains. Over inone corner there were two men getting ready to layout their sweet potatoes.Over in another corner was a short woman holding ashiny blue helicopter."Mother, mother, look at that helicopter!" Butmother pulled me away. In the middle of the market, there was a large stallthat sold different types of fruit.Some of them I had never seen before."What are the names of these fruits?" I asked mymother. She pointed at some: "These are oranges,and these are guavas."I turned around and said, "And these?" Of all the fruits at the stall, I likedthe apples most. I liked their shapeand colour. I wondered how theytasted.I turned to mother and said, "Couldyou buy one for me?" As soon as she gave me the apple, Ilet go of my mother's hand, tookthe fruit with both hands, and bitinto the juicy flesh.I had never enjoyed a fruit the way Ienjoyed that apple.All I cared about was my apple. When I finished the apple, I looked up to talk to mymother. But she was not there! I looked where wehad come from, but my mother and aunt were notthere.I looked to the right, then to the left. But they werenowhere to be seen. "Have you seen my mother?" Iasked the women selling potatoes nearby. They tookno notice. I started to cry. A while later, a woman took me bythe hand and led me to a placewhere there were other children.A big man with a thick beard asked,"What's your name, boy?""E-ta-bo," I replied through mytears. I wondered if children were alsosold at the market. I stopped cryingand looked around to see if anyonewould buy the children in the room.Soon a woman came in and pickedup one of the children."I will be the next one to be takenaway," I thought. "And then I'llnever go home again!"I started crying once more. When I heard the big man with thethick beard saying, "Where isEtabo?" I cried even harder."But I do not want to go with you!" Isobbed.I ran away from him. When my mother and aunt heardmy name, they rushed to the room."Etabo, Etabo!" a familiar voicecalled.It was my mother. As I got up to hug my mother, myaunt said, "Etabo, we were lookingfor you to give you your birthdaypresent."And from a big bag, she pulled out ashiny blue helicopter."It's yours!" she said.

This story is about an uncle named Sandy,Who likes his camera so much,he always keeps it handy.Let's rewind to when Uncle Sandywas a little boy,Unlike his friends,he never dreamt of a fancy toy. Lost in books that spoke of magical creatures,Even in class, he never listened to his teachers.As time passed by,Uncle Sandy became a wildlife photographer,While his friends became doctors, engineersand dance choreographers. Uncle Sandy didn't want to work in big offices,He wanted to take pictures of snakes,crocodiles and tortoises.So he decided to leavehis family and friends behind,And took off to the jungles with freedom in mind.On his first expedition to the Western Ghats,He had his first encounter with a mysterious cat.Uncle Sandy has been on its trail ever since,Hoping to click a picture of it, for evidence. So he decided to revisit the Western Ghats,Through its spiraling path in search of the cat.The cat in the ghat!The plan was to speak to animals along the way,To get clues about this catwhose colour he knew was grey. He began his journeyat the foothills of the Ghats,With the summer sun so hot,Uncle Sandy needed a hat.“Let's look for waterholes,” he said to himself,He knew that's where the animals would tread. And guess who he got to meet,The top cat himself, Mr. Tiger to greet.“Oh mighty tiger,” he said, “would you haveseen a cat?It is tall, swift and the colour of my hat.”The tiger didn't have much to say,He roared and looked the other way. Phew! That was close, he thought,Just as he was drenched by giant rain drops.Along with the shower came aswarm of termites,Who were sadly eaten by ants, at first sight. Rains in the Western Ghatscome down as waterfalls,Waterfalls become rivers andthat's how there's water for all.So, if we need water to drink,Protecting the Western Ghats is the link. What Uncle Sandy saw next filled him with glee,A family of elephants bathing in a pond, yippee!They were making the mostof the pre-monsoon showers,Some were kicking grass,others showing off their powers.“Excuse me you all,” said Uncle Sandy, waving his hat,“Would you have seen a big grey cat?” “No, no, no,” they all went in chorus,“We haven't seen him around here, we promise.”Uncle Sandy found himself in the rainforest soon,“The second level of the Western Ghats,”he crooned.“Bark!” came a reply through the forest dense.“Oh that's a Barking Deer I hear, it means no offence.” Up in the trees chomping through a jackfruit,He saw a lion-faced monkey, brute.A Lion-tailed Macaque is what it is, he knew,He'd looked through an encyclopedia of animals, woohoo!“Help me find a grey cat, will you?” said Uncle Sandy.“Okay,” said the feasting monkey. “Walk straight through the tall green treesTill you find one with a giant hive of bees.”“Under that tree lives a frog so rareIt lives underground, hiding from thesun's glare.”“He's a clever frog I'm told,Knows the whole jungle inside out and two-fold.”Uncle Sandy was so eager to look for the froggyHe left without saying thank you to the monkey. Left, right, left, right, Uncle Sandy marched,Walking through a row of trees that were arched.Then he saw a tree very tallWith a big beehive that was just about to fall. “Ribbit ribbit,” said a frog,But Uncle Sandy could not see it through the fog.“Oh you're the manwho comes in search of a cat,I heard about you from a clever little bat.”Said Uncle Sandy,“Please will you tell me where he is? I'll give you an exotic flower, an Iris.” The frog was purple in colour,He's the only one of his kind in India,Nasika batracus.The frog told him that he'd meet a tribesman,Who'd know where the cat lived, and would guide him.Uncle Sandy nodded, still in shock,He had just seen the most extraordinary frog. As he went further into the forests so thick,He saw that the trees were getting fewervery quick.“People cut trees,” he said, “to make products very cheap, And the poor animals, they have no place to sleep.”“These jungles are their homes you see,just like our houses back in the city.”Sad and disheartened by the state of affairs,Uncle Sandy decided to say a silent prayer. “Protect these forests, oh dear God, please,Save them so the animals can live in peace.”Saying so he carried on,the high altitude grasslands waiting,And that's where he'd findthe cat from its hiding. The remotest of places in the whole of the Western Ghats,The grasslands so green, Uncle Sandy just sat.Staring at the miracle of creationand the beauty of this place,This, he felt, was really his land of fairy tales.Pat came a tap on his back,He turned to see a face painted black. “Who are you, Sir?” Uncle Sandy questioned“I am a tribesman who lives here unquestioned.”“Oh but sir, will you be as kindTo answer one question I have on my mind?“Where can I find the special cat I'm looking for?I've seen it only once before.” “Are you talking about Pogeyan?” he said. Uncle Sandy wasn't sure what he meant.“The cat that comes and goes as the mist,Are you referring to that elusive cat that exists?”“Yes Sir, that's the one,” Uncle Sandy affirmed.He was so happy he could've drummedand hummed.“Aha!” said the tribesman, pointing to the mountains higher up,“I've seen the cat over there, all of three times in close-up.” Uncle Sandy was feeling extremely blessed.He did a somersault that left the tribesman perplexed.Uncle Sandy was whistling to himself,and climbingWhen he saw two male Nilgiri Tahrs head-butting.Looking at how well they'd adapted tothe terrain,Uncle Sandy wished he too was born on the mountains. Sure he'd find his cat somewhere around here,Uncle Sandy decided to put camera traps all over.Then he slept a good night's sleepUnder an open twinkling sky, on a hillock steep.When he woke up, he ran to his camera traps and checked.Yes, yes, yes, there were images of his cat!!The cat in the ghat! The cat looked the same as it did ten years ago,Uncle Sandy was happy, ho, ho, ho!That's when he felta tiny snake crawling over his feet.He was startled, and realised he'd been dreaming in his sleep.Uncle Sandy prayed his dream would come trueHope he finds his grey cat soon, don't you? The Cat in the Ghat is a whimsical tale of Uncle Sandy going in search of a mysterious cat in the Western Ghats. It has been inspired by the real-life expedition by Sandesh Kadur, a National Geographic Emerging Explorer, wildlife filmmaker and conservation photographer.His goal is to inspire people to protect and appreciate what remains of our wilderness. He is still looking for the Pogeyan!

I can cook. I can ride a bicycle. I can sew. I can work hard. I can speak three languages. I can sing. I can look after children. I can laugh!

Once upon a time there was aPickpocketer called Matome. Matome tried to stealMmamontsho's purse. His handgot stuck inside her handbag. Matome asked Mmamontsho tohelp him pull up his hand fromher handbag. Passengers were very angry when they seewhat is happening.they called the train Gaurd. The train guard came. Mmamontsho touchedMatome's arm to release his hand from beentrapped inside her handbag. Matome was locked in jail for pickpocketing.

It is my first day at school.Mummy is holding my hand and walking with me.“I am grown up now,” I say. “Let go, let go!”Mummy holds my hand very tight. There are many children near the school.They come by bus. They come by car.They come by rickshaw. They cycle.They walk, like me. We reach the gate. Mummy lets go of my hand.She stays at the gate. I have to go inside alone.There are many new faces all around me. I take one step. I take another step. I look back. Mummy gets smaller as I walk away. Will she disappear?I run back to her. I don't feel so grown up. I hold her hand.“Don't go away,” I say. Everyone is inside now. I am the only one outside. The teacher comes out. She smiles at me. I smile back.Mummy says, "Rani, I will be here when you come out."I let go of her hand. She waves to me. I run inside. Mummy will be there after school!

Ali's shirt is old. He needs a new one. He goes to the shopping mall to look for new clothes. In the shopping mall he cannot find the clothing store. He goes into a shop to ask for directions. "Where can I buy clothes?" he asks. The shopkeeper points to the other side of the mall. The clothing store is on the opposite side! Ali goes in and looks for a shirt. The shirts are too big for him, and quite expensive. He buys a new pair of trousers instead because they are on sale. He decides he will buy a shirt next month when he gets his salary.

Nanhi picked up her slate and chalk.She wanted to draw a long, l-o-n-g train. Nanhi first drew an engine which gave out a lot of smoke, for the long, long train. “Oh dear! Now where shall I make the coaches?” Nanhi wondered, for there was no more space on the slate. Nanhi put the slate and chalk down on the floor and thought. She drew a coach on the floor.Then a second coach, then another, and another, and another... Nanhi just kept drawing. Until her chalk got over.Nanhi got up and took a look. Wow!Her train was as long as the verandah! And off went Nanhi's train – Chhuk-Chhuk-Chhak, from here to there, so very far!

In my home village,there is a trader calledDembe. Dembe has a big shopin the village. The shop sells flour,sugar, rice, beans, andmany more things. Dembe and his wifehave three children.They all work hard inthe shop. During the holidays, thechildren help theirparents to servecustomers. They countthe money and givechange. Dembe has a businessbook. He keeps recordsin this book every day. Dembe and his wifehave a good house anda car. They keep goats, cows,chickens and rabbits.Their life is good. Dembe and his wifehave enough money topay school fees for theirchildren.

My baby boy is John Francis. He likes yellow bananasand apples. After taking his breakfast, he goes to play with a friend. He likes swimmingduring afternoon hours. He does his homeworkand draws differentpictures. John Francis has a big cock. He plays hide and seekwith friends. His favorite color is yellow. He likes pet animals very much. John Francis encourageshis friends to read hard,to have a bright future.

I am talking. You are walking. He is writing. She is sleeping. It is eating. We are reading. You are listening. They are driving. Everyone is doing something!

Once upon time, a lionwanted to come out ofthe bush and have ahuman as a friend. And so the lion and theman became friends. They ate together andshared meat. The lionrealised that the manwas a meat lover. Itbegan to fear that theman would kill it. The lion feared thatperhaps the man mightspear it with his spears.The man feared thatthe lion might eat himat night when he slept. One night the mandreamed that the lionwas moving towardshim slowly, trying to eathim. The man took up hisspear, shouting, "If youwant to eat me, then Iwill spear you." The lionwoke up and ran out, "Isaid this man will oneday kill me." From that day, the lionand the man were nolonger friends. The lionwill kill a humanwhenever it finds one.And humans will kill alion if they can. That is why it is said: if someone wantsfriendship with you, you should first knowabout that person's character. You shouldknow if you can be together peacefully.

Tullu and Bullu were twin rabbits who lived in a jungle. The jungle was full of wild animals. But Tullu and Bullu had built a sturdy house for themselves and they lived in it safely and happily.One cold winter evening, the twins were warming themselves by a fire they had lit, when someone knocked at their door.It was a big wolf! "I am dying of cold!" said the wolf loudly. "Please open your door a little so I can just warm my tail. I won't harm you. I promise."Tullu and Bullu were kind-hearted rabbits. They opened the door a little and the wolf pushed in his tail. After two minutes he said, “Aaah! If only I could warm my hind legs too! Please open your door a little more. I promise I won't hurt you.” Tullu opened the door a little wider while Bullu put a big pan of water on the fire.After five minutes the wolf said, "You are so kind! Now if you opened your door a little more, I could warm my front legs too. Don't worry! I'm harmless." The twins looked at the pan of water on the fire. The water was getting hot. They opened the door a little wider. Now just the wolf's nose was outside the door.After ten minutes the wolf said, “I feel so nice and warm! Only my nose is still cold. Kind rabbits, please open your door a little more. Don't be scared of me. I'm harmless.” Tullu opened the door a little wider while Bullu picked up the pan of boiling water. “You can warm your nose,” said Tullu. The wolf wriggled in completely, turned around and sprang at the rabbits. But they were ready for him. Bullu threw the boiling water straight at the wicked wolf! “Ai-yai-yai!” he howled as he ran out of the door. “I'll be back!” he yelled. “And then I'll tear you to pieces!” Tullu and Bullu climbed up onto the roof of their house and hid there. Soon the wolf came back and brought ten other wolves with him. They broke open the door of the house. It was empty. “There they are!” shouted a wolf who had gone outside. “If we make a ladder, we can reach them.” The wolves began to stand one on top of the other, with the scalded wolf at the bottom of the ladder.They had almost reached the roof when Tullu shouted, “Watch out! Here comes more boiling water!” The scalded wolf was terrified.“No! No!” he yelled. “Not again!” He ran away to save himself. The ladder collapsed and all the wolves came tumbling down! Groaning and grumbling, they limped away and never returned. Tullu and Bullu came down from the roof, repaired their broken door and lived happily ever after.

It is sunny. It is cloudy. It is raining. It is windy. It is snowing. It is cold. It is hot.

Shanti and Arun were good friends. They had so much fun together.They shared secrets in class. They ran races on the way home.She was always cheerful. One day, Shanti came into the classroom slowly. Her head was bent. She looked sad. “Did someone scold you?” asked Arun.Shanti shook her head. She sat down and did not look up. She did not answer ‘Present!' when Sona Miss called her name. Sona Miss called again, louder this time, “Shanti Kumar!” Shanti raised her hand. “Do you have a sore throat?” her teacher asked her. Shanti shook her head.Her cheeks were red and it looked like she had a fever.“Are you feeling okay?” Sona Miss asked.Shanti nodded, still not daring to look up. “Why does Shanti look so sad?”“Is your little brother okay?”“Is your puppy okay?”“Is your grandmother okay?”Shanti kept nodding her head to each of her friends. But she did not look up. Arun wanted to make her smile. He had an idea! He took out something from his bag.As he ran to show it to Shanti, it slipped out of his hands. Shanti saw something flying towards her and she grabbed it. It was a BIG, green, rubber frog!Shanti's eyes flew open. Then she opened her mouth to laugh.THEN Arun and her friends saw why she had not smiled or talked all day!Four of her front teeth had gone missing!

Once upon a time, a long timeago, there was a time of greathunger. A very smart hyenapretended he was so sick hecouldn't even go out. Lots of animals went to visit himin his home to comfort him. Butnone of them ever came out! One beautiful afternoon, therabbit arrived. He thought hewould like to visit the hyenatoo. He almost went into thehyena's cave. But suddenly hestopped, and saw there wereonly tracks of animals going in,and none coming out. So he stayed outside andshouted into it, "How are you?Are you healthy, my bestfriend? Are you getting better?" The hyena answered, "Don'tworry, my friend. Come in andgive me some lovely company!" "Oh, I'm not sure if I should come in. Really, I don't havetime right now,and you have so many visitors . . .""No, no, rabbit, everything is alright. There's nobody inhere. It's no goodfor me to stay here all sick and alone." "You are lying! I can see thefootprints of animals that havegone in but haven't come out . .." The hyena went quiet and therabbit said, "Good-bye, myfriend, I think I will visit youanother day." And the rabbit ran far awayfrom that place!

Tulima loves music. She listens to it every day. Her friends Carlos and Anita also like music. "Tulima, what sort of music do you like?" asks Carlos. "I like Western music, but I prefer music from my country, Ethiopia." "I come from Colombia. I only listen to salsa. It's great for dancing," says Carlos. Anita says, "I like romantic songs and music that makes me happy." What sort of music do you like?

A man called Kato lived inBunghumu village. He used to stealpeoples' animals. One day he went and stole a goatfrom the neighbouring village. Heslaughtered and kept the meat inhis house. The following morning the peoplefound out that Kato had stolen thegoat.They started looking for him. When they reached Kato's home,they found him roasting the meat.

"Do you have any family?" "Yes, my husband and I have two daughters and a son." "I also have two daughters, but I'm divorced." "How old are your daughters?" "Mina is four years old. She goes to preschool. Miriam is ten, so she goes to school." "All of my children are in school. My son will graduate next year." "That is great! They grow up so fast. What does he want to do afterwards?" "He wants to get a job, but I tell him he should go to university instead." "That's a good idea. I also hope my children will go to university someday."

The state of Jammu and Kashmir is one of the largest manufacturers of cricket bats in India. Sangam, where this story is set, is a town about 35 kilometres from the state capital Srinagar.The abundance of willow trees in the region makes it home to nearly two hundred cricket bat workshops. Rehman Chacha had a cricket bat factory in Sangam. One could see cricket bats neatly stacked in rows all around his factory.The bats were made from willow trees that make the best quality bats in the world. The trees grew neatly in rows on both sides of the road that ran through Sangam. In fact, you can see them all over Kashmir. Rehman Chacha was an old man with a hunchback who would always be on his feet to get his work done.He often frowned and used a walking stick wherever he went. Aamir worked at Rehman Chacha's factory. His son, Ahmed, stayed with him at the factory every day after school. He would stare at the tall stacks of cricket bats in awe.On several evenings, after the sun had set, he would see the moon partly hidden behind the stack of bats and wonder if he could touch the moon if he ever climbed up to the top of a stack. He would hold the bat after Aamir had chiseled it with his lathe machine and run his fingers across the length of the bat. Gripping it by its handle, he would swing it in the air with a flick of his wrist. He was only seven, but he dreamt of being Sachin Tendulkar someday. Before the workers left for home each evening, Rehman Chacha would count the number of bats in his warehouse. He was very particular about his stock. If he found a bat missing, he would start playing detective.And it happened! One morning when Rehman Chacha opened his warehouse to take the stock out and load it onto his truck, he found that there was one bat less. That too, the one that was the biggest and the lightest! He was furious and ordered all his men to stand in a row. “One bat is missing. Where do you think it could have gone?”Everyone looked down and shook their heads. They found it difficult to look at Chacha when he was angry.“How can a bat disappear overnight? No one else enters the warehouse other than you all and me,” screamed Rehman Chacha as everyone continued looking down. Just then Rehman Chacha laid his eyes on Aamir. “Aha! Where is Ahmed, Aamir? He is not to be seen today.”“Ahmed is not keeping too well, Rehman Chacha. He is down with a cold and cough,” Aamir answered, still looking down.Suddenly, one by one everyone started giggling and then laughing, including Aamir. “Why are all you shameless people laughing?” Rehman Chacha could not get any angrier now.“We found the missing cricket bat, Chacha!” exclaimed a delighted Aamir.Rehman Chacha was astonished. “But...but...but you have all been standing in front of me. How did you find it? Where is it?” asked Rehman Chacha.Everyone looked down at Rehman Chacha's ‘walking stick'. So did Rehman Chacha. No one knew Rehman Chacha could laugh so loudly. And no one knew till then that he wore dentures!

I can't knit, cats can't write, fish can't blink... ... pigs can't fly! Dogs can't dance, ants can't read, crows can't sing... ... monkeys can't cook! But, monkeys can swing! Crows can caw... ants can bite...dogs can bark! Pigs can eat, fish can swim, cats can jump...and I can read!

Imagine a day..... whenwe could have a picnicon the shores of LakeVictoria. Imagine a day.... wheneveryone knows how toread and there arebooks in everylanguage. Imagine a day.... when i gave birth to my first baby. Imagine a day.... when all people in the world would livepeacefully as brothers and sisters. Imagine a day.... when I can walkon water. Imagine a day.... whenyour daughter becamea president. Imagine a day..... when you are about to be put in a graveand then you came back to life again. Imagine a day.... when peopledevelop wings, fly and reach wherethe creator is. Imagine a day.... when all the ground is covered with acarpet in the whole world.

"The days are starting to get cold. What is the temperature?" "It's nine degrees. It's still autumn, but soon it will be winter." "I'm looking forward to spring, but I prefer summer, when it's nice and warm." "I don't mind the cold. It's the rain and wind I don't like." "Look at those dark clouds. Tomorrow it will rain. It will be very windy too. Perhaps there will be a storm." "I hope not. I really don't like bad weather, especially thunder and lightning. I'm afraid the lightning might strike me."

My village had many problems.We made a long line to fetch water from one tap. We waited for food donated by others. We locked our houses early because of thieves. Many children dropped out of school. Young girls worked as maids in other villages. Young boys roamed around the village while others worked on people's farms. When the wind blew, waste paper hung on trees and fences. People were cut by broken glass that was thrown carelessly. Then one day, the tap dried up and our containers were empty. My father walked from house to house asking people to attend a village meeting. People gathered under a big tree and listened. My father stood up and said, "We need to work together to solve our problems." Eight-year-old Juma, sitting on a tree trunk shouted, "I can help with cleaning up." One woman said, "The women can join me to grow food." Another man stood up and said, "The men will dig a well." We all shouted with one voice, "We must change our lives."From that day we worked together to solve our problems.

In a little hilly hamlet of southern India, lived a young girl called Bulbuli. She lived in a hut with her mother. Her house was surrounded by the tallest and greenest trees you would have ever seen. On misty days, the leaves of plants and trees held the biggest dewdrops you could imagine. Bulbuli was as sprightly as her name. She, along with her friends, would prance through the endless forests around her village. She loved to take in deep breaths every morning as the air carried all kinds of different aromas. Sometimes she could smell a sweet, sweet fragrance. At other times it was a strong and sharp scent. Then there were days when all she could smell was a familiar bouquet. Waking up to those refreshing scents was the best way for Bulbuli to begin her day. Then there was Totaram the parrot, who would fly in to the village every morning, perch himself atop a tree facing Bulbuli's hut, and tell her of the entire buzz in the forest. He would also tell her of his flights to different lands and of people who lived there.Bulbuli loved to hear Totaram's tales. She longed to visit these lands and see their different sights. Her heart would race and thump loudly as Totaram would speak but it would always end with a deep sigh. She had to stop dreaming of faraway lands when she had never even been to Senseless Point. Everybody in the village talked of Senseless Point. A few people from the neighbouring villages had been there but no one from her own village. From all the talk around, it seemed like a mysterious place promising an experience of a lifetime.Bulbuli believed that if she ever had the chance to go to Senseless Point, she would return to her hamlet and describe it to everyone. She would tell everyone about this mysterious place. On this particular morning, Bulbuli waited for Totaram's whistle. She fed the hens and collected their eggs. Next she fed the cows and then milked them. All the while she paused from time to time to listen to Totaram's call. Tired of waiting, she left for her school. All the students in her school sat under a huge banyan tree. Bulbuli could hardly pay attention to what was being taught. Her eyes searched for Totaram, who had never missed visiting her ever since the time they became friends.Several days passed and Bulbuli grew more concerned about Totaram. She worried that Totaram might be hurt. She had no way of knowing if he was safe. Bulbuli grew more despondent with each day. After school, she would walk through the forests calling out to Totaram.“Hello! Are you here somewhere Totaram?” she would yell cupping her mouth with her hands. But there was no response. Then one very early morning, even before the sun had risen, she heard a very noisy and distressed bird call. She leapt out of bed and rushed out to look. It was Totaram. “Bulbuli! Wake up! I need to talk to you!”Bulbuli stretched out her arm so that Totaram could perch on it. “Where have you been, Totaram? I have been so worried about you. What is the matter? You seem very upset!”“There is trouble at Senseless Point. War has broken out in the forest.”“Calm down Totaram or you will wake the entire village. What kind of trouble are you talking about? And who is at war?” asked a puzzled Bulbuli.“The jungle... Oops! Sorry, Bulbuli. I do need to stop screaming. The jungles are at war. Senseless Point is not what it used to be. All the animals are frightened. They do not know what is going to happen next. Bulbuli, we have to think of something,” cried Totaram anxiously.“I still do not understand. How can jungles be at war? Why don't you take me to Senseless Point?” said Bulbuli. Totaram grew even more agitated. “Senseless Point is two sunrises and two dusks away. Your small feet will not be able to carry you there.”“My mind is bigger than my feet, Totaram. Don't let the size of my feet fool you. I'm not afraid to do difficult things. Besides, the least I can do is try.”“The journey is long and hard, Bulbuli. I'm not sure...” mused Totaram.“Well, I cannot think of any other way to help. You must take me to Senseless Point,” pleaded Bulbuli. Totaram thought for a long time. Reluctantly, he agreed. “All right then, but we must leave immediately,” he said. Just then Bulbuli realised that she could not leave without telling her mother. Totaram suggested that they stop on the way to get Koyal, his friend to tell her mother first thing in the morning.“Hurry now. We must not lose any time,” Totaram urged.So off they went. Totaram flew just above Bulbuli's head and led the way. Bulbuli walked and walked for several hours. She was not unused to walking through thickets and tall grass. But then she grew hungry and tired. Totaram could see that she needed to eat and drink.“Just a little longer Bulbuli. There are coconut trees up ahead,” said Totaram. When they reached the coconut plantations, Totaram let out a shrill whistle. “Whoeeeee...”From nowhere swung a frisky monkey. He was so full of beans that Totaram had to chide him.“Calm down, Bandaroo! I have work for you. Stop prancing around.” “Alright Totaram. What is it?” asked Bandaroo.“Pluck a couple of coconuts and toss them below. My friend Bulbuli here is hungry,” informed Totaram. Bandaroo obliged. He threw three green coconuts down. They split open as they crashed to the ground. Bulbuli hungrily reached out for them and scooped out the creamy kernel. She ate quickly when all the while Bandaroo squealed with delight from the tree above.“Thanks Bandaroo. That was filling,” said Bulbuli.“Call me anytime folks. I'm the best thrower in the jungle,” said Bandaroo chirpily. Totaram and Bulbuli carried on with their journey. After several hours, Bulbuli grew weary and exhausted. However, she was not going to give up. She had an opportunity of a lifetime here. A visit to Senseless Point for people around her village was like a pilgrimage.Each time that she felt fatigued, Bulbuli tried to picture Senseless Point in her mind. She imagined a beautiful place that could fill people's hearts with happiness. That scene in her mind was enough to make her forget how footsore she was. The first dusk of their journey set in. ‘Another day to go,' thought Bulbuli. Bulbuli rested under a tree while Totaram found a comfortable spot on a branch above. Soon it was dawn.Bulbuli was awakened by the chattering of what seemed like a million birds in the jungle. Bulbuli took several big breaths and stretched her arms out to wake up her body. The morning felt different. She could smell all the familiar scents that she used to every morning, but somehow, they were stronger and more refreshing. “Totaram! Can you smell the freshness in the air? I love it!” she told the parrot. “You have all day to take your whiffs. Let us get moving,” ordered Totaram. Totaram and she talked little the next day. He could see that Bulbuli was tired, hungry and thirsty.Totaram flew down to perch on her shoulder. “There is a stream nearby. We will rest there for a while.”In a little while, Bulbuli heard the sound of rushing water. In no time they arrived at the stream. Theclear water glistened in the sunlight. The water seemed to be racing with itself to get somewhere. It was abeautiful sight.Bulbuli leaned over and cupped the water in her hands and drank all that she could. She splashed water on her face and refreshed herself. Just as she was done, Totaram landed on her shoulder once again and nudged her to stretch out her palms. He then dropped red, delicious berries in them. “Oh Totaram! You are the nicest friend I know. Thank you so much,” smiled Bulbuli. “Go ahead and eat them. Berries are my favourite food. I have already eaten too many today!” gushed Totaram. They rested for a while and then set out once again. Bulbuli walked and walked while Totaram flew just above her talking to her all the while.After several hours, Bulbuli sat down. “I need to rest Totaram. I am really very exhausted. Totaram let out a loud whistle. Within minutes, an elephant strolled up to them. Totaram introduced Hathi to Bulbuli and told him of their journey to Senseless Point.“I believe only a human can help the war in the jungle. Animals are running away from what is paradise for us,” said a concerned Hathi. “Will you give Bulbuli a ride, Hathi?” asked Totaram. “Her will is strong but her strength is failing.” “Of course. Climb up, little girl, but I can only take you up to the trail. After that you are on your own. I cannot be away from my group for long,” said Hathi. Bulbuli was relieved. Her small legs needed rest and she was able to get a spectacular view of the jungle from atop Hathi's back.Hathi, like Totaram, had many tales to tell. The day passed easily. At dusk, the trio settled by a cave. Totaram and Hathi gathered dried leaves and straw and made a bed for Bulbuli. As soon as Bulbuli lay down, she dozed off. At the third sunrise, Totaram did not haveto wake Bulbuli.She was up at the crack of dawn. Totaram brought her some purple berries this time, which she ate with delight. The young girl, the parrot and the elephant began the last leg of their journey. Bulbuli was becoming more uncertain of what to expect. First there was the anticipation of Senseless Point. Then there was the uneasiness of the jungles at war.As she was getting closer to her destination, her heart began to fill with thrill and excitement but with a tinge of apprehension. Shortly, Hathi stopped. He said, “It is time for me to say goodbye. I must return to my family. All the animals will be grateful to you if you could help end the war of the jungles. We cannot bear to live anywhere else. These jungles have been our home for generations.”Bulbuli thanked Hathi for carrying her as far as he did.“I hope the jungles hear me out, Hathi. I promise to do my best.” Totaram sat on Bulbuli's shoulder and asked her to slow down. “Look at that trail going downward. That will lead us to Senseless Point,” instructed Totaram.At this point, a strange humming sound enveloped the jungle. As they walked further, the noise grew louder and louder. “Where is that noise coming from?” asked Bulbuli covering her ears.“That is the sound of three jungles at war, and it is only going to get louder as we approach Senseless Point,” hollered Totaram. Bulbuli could barely believe what was going on. Never before had she encountered such a scene. As she climbed down the trail and looked around, she saw nothing out of the ordinary. But the clamour was ear splitting.Totaram pecked at her ear to get her attention. With the shrieks of the jungles, Bulbuli could hardly hear Totaram. With three more steps, Bulbuli found herself amidst a clearing. It was as if all the trees of the jungle had suddenly disappeared. There were hillocks stretching as far as her eyes could see.“This is Senseless Point. This is a place where everything grows wild. Humans hardly ever come here,” said Totaram. Then Totaram began screaming, “A human being is here, a human being!” But in the deafening din of the jungles, his voice went unheard.Bulbuli could not get herself to remove her hands from her ears. She could not understand what the jungles were saying, but by now it was clear that there were three jungles involved. In the distance, just in front of her, she could see green beds. On her right, were hundreds and hundreds of shrubs with magenta flowers. On her left, she could see very tall plants. The sight before her was breathtaking. And the aroma was stunning.Bulbuli's face lit up with wonder. She turned towards each jungle several times over, to take in the splendour. Almost instantly, the noise of the jungles began to die down, as if the jungles had spotted her.That was when Bulbuli took her first deep breath. She could smell the aroma of tea. Then in the next breath, she was drawn to the fragrance on her right. It was a spicy fragrance- something she was familiar with. Unsure, she breathed in some more and said to herself, “Ah! Elaichi!” A gentle breeze pushed her to her left. Her head turned and she smiled when she took in her next deep breath. It was an attractive and pure smell. Instantly, she recognised the plant.Bulbuli joined her hands and bowed with reverence. “You are Tulsi!”Bulbuli was overwhelmed by the fragrances. They smelled like three octaves of the same musical note – Sa, Sa, Sa. Bulbuli felt joyful. She stretched her arms and twirled around with her eyes closed. The fragrances and the musical notes played in her head, over and over again. All her senses were alive. This was a magical moment for her. Never before had she felt so delighted.Just then, the elaichi plant spoke, “Maybe this little girl could punish the tea bushes.”“Maybe. Little girl, can you stop the tea bushes from stealing our fragrance?” asked a Tulsi plant.Bulbuli was stunned to hear the jungles speak to her. Before she could respond, a tea bush spoke up. “Maybe if these two were not around, humans might be able to ap-preciate our aroma.” “Is that what this war is all about, worrying about your smells getting stolen?” asked a puzzled Bulbuli. She smiled to herself. “Do you have any idea what you all smell like from where I stand? I can smell each of you distinctly.”“It really is not our fault. We are not fragrance thieves. Our leaves take on the smell of anything that grows around us. In fact, with tulsi and elaichi around us, we have to work extra hard to keep our identity. It is not as if the tulsi jungle and the elaichi jungle have lost their perfume to me. You just said that you can smell their individual whiff,” said a tea bush.Bulbuli took several deep breaths to calm down. She discovered that every time she took in a collected breath of tea, elaichi and tulsi, it helped her relax. There was something very soothing about the three of them together. “My mother has taught me important things from the Vedas. Do you know what they have to say?” asked Bulbuli. “The sun should be a giver of happiness, the sky should be a giver of happiness, and all trees and plants should be givers of happiness. All these should give us peace of mind. Do you think you are doing that?”The jungles fell silent. They were listening to Bulbuli. Bulbuli had an idea. She whispered something to Totaram. He flew off from her shoulder almost immediately.A tulsi plant spoke. “The elaichi and tulsi grow wild. We have no control over where and how we grow. And neither do we tell the wind which way to blow.”Bulbuli thought for a moment. “In that case, how can you blame the tea? Maybe you ought to blame the wind.” “The wind! Tulsi and Elaichi fight constantly with the wind too. They do not want the wind to take their perfume out of here,” said a tea bush. Bulbuli was aghast. “Is that true?” she asked.Neither of the two guilty jungles replied. Bulbuli sighed deeply. Just then Totaram returned. He carried a few tulsi leaves, some elaichi seeds and tea leaves in his beak and placed them on Bulbuli's palm. Bulbuli gently rubbed them together. She raised her palm to smell them. She let out a loud delighted shriek.The jungles screamed back in unison, “What is the matter, little girl? Are you all right?” Bulbuli laughed with joy. “You can now wave the white flag for peace. I have a bit of all three of you in my hand and together you smell like nothing else in the world. One whiff of all of you together is so relaxing.”Totatram whispered in Bulbuli's ear. She smiled. “Totaram tells me that the animals in the jungles have known just which leaf to eat when they are unwell. Even the birds have eaten your fruit and leaves together to know how quickly you can make them better again. Did you jungles even know that?” asked Bulbuli.“These animals eat your leaves to relieve all kinds of sickness. They even come here to Senseless Point to rejuvenate themselves. Totaram, get me a bunch of tea, elaichi and tulsi. I am going back home to brew a warm cup of tea with tulsi and elaichi for my mother. Celebrate, jungles! The world is going to know how well you taste together. Which means that you have to get on well with each other. Can you do that?” asked Bulbuli. Bulbuli and Totaram giggled. So did the jungles. This time the noise level rose not because of the fighting, but with laughter. Bulbuli was relieved to see the war coming to an end. She realised that the jungles had each been able to feel pride in their uniqueness.Bulbuli asked Totaram to collect bunches of tea, tulsi leaves along with elaichi seeds. “Jungles, I am now going to return to my village with the most exquisite and refreshing tea, one with tulsi and elaichi. And I promise to return with people from my village to introduce them to Senseless Point. The most refreshing place on earth!”That is how tulsi and elaichi flavoured tea was discovered. Have you tried it yet?

Edson was born in Angola, just after the country became independent. He was a very tall boy. Because of his height he stood out. The people who were giving weapons to children to fight as soldiers in the civil war wanted boys like him. His mother was afraid they would take him, so she decided to send him to live in Portugal with an aunt. She thought he would be safe there. It was very difficult to begin with, as Edson missed the warm weather, the traditional food and, most of all, his mother's hugs and kisses. He did not speak Portuguese well and found it very hard to follow his classes and the conversations of his classmates. He wondered if it was a good idea to come to Portugal after all. One day a teacher noticed how good he was at basketball. He joined a basketball team and was very successful. He became popular at school and made friends. He also became more confident. Now that he is an adult, Edson trains refugee children and others at risk of being excluded from society. Once, his height put him in danger of becoming a child soldier. Now, his height gives him strength to help others feel safe.

My youngest uncle is getting married.The wedding is in the village.We are all going to the wedding.We are going by train. We are the first to come to the station.My father, my mother, my brother and I. We have one big bag and two small bags.And we have a red water bottle. The train has not yet come.Many people are coming.They are all waiting for the train.Where is the rest of the family? There! I can see my grandfather.He is walking slowly.He is looking for us.My grandmother is behind him. I am thirsty. Can I have a cold drink?My brother is hungry. He wants to eat chips. "Wait," says my mother. "We are not even on the train. I have sweets if you are hungry. I have water if you are thirsty. But wait till the train comes." My grandfather has a very small bag.He also has a stick.My grandmother's bag is big.I think there are many good things to eat in it. My fat aunt has arrived. Her thin husband is here too.Their suitcase is full of clothes. They both like to dress up. There is a big noise. The train is coming. The train is coming!Everyone wants to get in. Where is the young man, who is getting married? We are all ready. But where is he?My father goes to look for my uncle. My grandfather looks too. My mother looks worried. But my grandmother is smiling."There he is!" grandmother says.My uncle is running towards us. “So sorry, so sorry,” he says.We all get on the train. The train leaves the station.

One day the rabbitfound a snail. He said tothe snail, "You can'trun! All you know ishow to crawl on theground." The snail said, "Comeon Sunday and you willsee." The snail prepared ahundred bits of paperand wrote the samemessage on them. The snail handed outthe papers to hisfriends and said, "Whenthe rabbit comes herecalling me, one of youmust say: I am thesnail." Then the snail told hisfriends to hide behindthe bushes where therabbit and the snailwere to pass. On Sunday, the rabbitarrived and found thesnail.The rabbit said, "Let´shave a race.But I will win." Snails were lined up onthe racing track so thateach time the rabbitpassed, a snail wouldshout, 'I am a snail...'During the race, therabbit called out,"Snail! Snail!" One of the snails hiddenbehind the bushesanswered, "I am thesnail, I am the snail." Finally, the rabbit wasvery tired.He lay down, saying,"Snail, I am so tired;you have won." So the snail wonbecause of hiscleverness!

Yulia, her husband, and their little daughter lived in a small, quiet village in Ukraine. Yulia loved being woken every morning by the sound of birds. She never thought she would live far away from home, or not be woken up by the sound of birds in the morning. Her husband was always complaining about not having enough money and he began drinking heavily. They decided to try their luck in Portugal. Maybe there they could earn more money to build a house and make a better future for their family. Yulia adapted well to her new home, and she started working as a cleaner. Her clients really appreciated her hard work and her polite attitude. Her husband, on the other hand, felt more and more left out. Because of his drinking problem, employers did not trust him and would not give him work. One day he started yelling at Yulia. Then, he started pushing her. The shouting and beatings got worse, especially when he was drunk. Yulia was afraid for herself and her daughter, but she had no idea what she could do. When Yulia finally had to go to the emergency room in the hospital with a broken arm, they told her that domestic violence was a huge problem in Portugal. They also said that it was a crime and she should report it to the police. Yulia was exhausted and did not want her little daughter to grow up in a home where she witnessed violence every day. Yulia realised that the signs of abuse had been there all along, even if it took many different forms. Yulia went to a women's shelter, where she felt safer than she had in a long time. She had not felt like that since she was woken up by the sound of birds in the morning.

My two brothers and I came to Norway in December 2016. We wore summer clothes because we thought it would be as warm in Norway as it was in Somalia. However, when we arrived at the airport, it was snowing. We were cold and the weather was chilly. Although we had brought a few suitcases, they only had summer clothes in them. Even though it was cold, I was very happy when we came to Norway. I would finally meet my mum again, whom I had not seen for six years. My mum and two of her friends met us. When we saw her, we wept with joy. We drove to the small town where Mum lives. The first days in Mum's town were very strange. It was cold and snowy and there was not much to see. The streets were completely empty. The few people I met seemed cold and unfriendly. In Somalia there were people everywhere, so everything felt unfamiliar here. My mum and her friends gave us some presents, and then she took us to buy winter clothes. After the Christmas holidays I joined a Norwegian course at the adult education centre. I studied there for two years before starting in an ordinary school. Now I am in my final year, and I have made many new friends. I am very sociable and enjoy meeting other people. After school I go to a centre run by volunteers where I get help with my homework. I have also joined a sewing course at the centre. In Somalia I never went to school or did any courses except Quran school. I did not know how to read or write. Now I have learned how to write in both Somali and Norwegian, and many other subjects. Without education I felt I was nobody. Now I feel knowledgeable and happy. Next year I will start secondary school in the health and youth development section. In the future I want to become a youth worker. When I have finished my education, my dream is to get a permanent job. I also want to learn how to drive and get my driver's licence. If I had stayed in Somalia, I think I would have been a mother by now. Perhaps I would already have many children. If I had been in Somalia, I would not have had the same opportunities as I have had now. I feel lucky to live in Norway.

School is over.Children are leaving.Teachers are leaving.Everyone is going home. I come out of the gate.I am in a hurry.I do not have time to play.I do not have time to talk.I want to get home fast. I walk down the lane.It is a narrow lane.I can see crowds up ahead.There is a big road there. The big road has lots of traffic.Cars, trucks and cycles, motorcycles, scooters and auto rickshaws.Some are going this way. Some are going that way.I know how to find the gap and run to the other side. I have reached the divider.There is traffic in front.There is traffic behind.I must be careful. I am on the other side.I almost crash into the chanawallah.He growls. I say, “Sorry,” and run along. I walk faster and faster.Now there are fish shops. Big fish, small fish, long fish, flat fish.Shiny fish, dull fish. So many fish in every shop. I walk faster and faster.Now there are fish shops. Big fish, small fish, long fish, flat fish.Shiny fish, dull fish, So many fish in every shop. Now I must run.Past the video shops, past the barber shop,past the cloth shop, past the pan shop.Running, running, running down the lane. Finally I reach home.Oh good! I am not late.My father goes to work in the afternoon.He has not left as yet. His cycle is still here. My father comes outside, my mother is behind him.I give my father a big hug. My father gives me a big hug.Then he goes to work. Now there is no hurry. I have lots of time.

In the swamp on the far side of the Far Forest, lived Sniffles, thecrocodile. Sniffles was always crying big crocodile tears or goingsniff...sniff... Even his mom was quite tired of him and would say,"Stop sniveling and crying, start behaving like a crocodile. Go huntfor your food." But Sniffles would burst into tears at the thought ofeating another animal. So mom and dad had to feed Sniffles everyday. Sniffles did not want to be a crocodile. "I am so ugly," he thought,bursting into tears. He did not even want to live like crocodiles do.His best friend was Punch, a golden yellow butterfly. And Punchwanted to be big and strong. So Punch always had her feelercurled into a fist saying, "Look out! I will punch you in the mouth."They made a very funny pair. Sniffles swimming with Punchperched on his head. The other crocodiles would laugh and makefun of them. That did not bother Sniffles. He continued crying,sniffling and being friends with Punch. One sunny afternoon, Punch settled herself near Sniffles' ear andtold him, "I have seen two men come this way with guns, theywant to kill crocodiles for their skins.""Don't these men have skins of their own?" asked a puzzledSniffles."I don't know Sniffles." replied Punch. "Tell the other crocodiles andhide.""But Punch, they might shoot you. Oh! What will I do?" criedSniffles sobbing loudly."People catch butterflies with nets and pin them on a board, mygrandaunt told me," said Punch and flew away. The other crocodiles heard Sniffles crying and shouting, "Mencoming to kill us. Hide...Hurry...Hide." At first the crocodiles did notbelieve Sniffles, but then they heard the men's footsteps.The crocodiles went deep into the river and left some rotten logsfloating on the water. The men shot at the logs which looked likecrocodiles from afar. The men could not see any crocodiles, onlyhundreds of butterflies that flew into their faces and hair. Shaking their heads and trying to brush off thebutterflies they said, "There are no crocodiles here,we will bring nets and catch the butterflies." And offthey went. All the crocodiles got together and said,"Thank you, Punch.""Thank you, butterflies." The next day Sniffles saw men with nets. Heremembered Punch telling him about nets."Punch, the nets! Come here quick! The men withthe nets have come."All the crocodiles came on the river bank. Thebutterflies settled on the backs and heads of thecrocodiles. A few of the crocodiles made a circle around the men as theycame close. The crocodiles snapped their jaws. Sniffles was infront, gnashing his teeth and whipping his tail around mostmenacingly. The men were so frightened that they took to theirheels and ran right out of the swamp.The other crocodiles were very proud of Sniffles, as he had actedlike a real crocodile. Now Sniffles was also proud to be one.All the butterflies flew around the crocodiles, fluttering their wings."Thank you, Sniffles, thank you, crocodiles.""It is alright," said Sniffles shyly."That is what friends are for, to take care of each other."

I thought Norwegian men were the best men in the world, but that is not true! Before I met the man who became my husband, I worked in a factory in Bangkok, and he lived in Pattaya. We met through the Internet and eventually became a couple. After a while we decided to get married. I came from a poor family, so having a foreign husband who could take care of my family was part of my reason for marrying him. We moved to Norway, and I started going to school to learn Norwegian. It was a difficult time. I did not have a driver's licence, and my husband had to drive me to school, wait for me, and drive back. It was an hour each way. After a while we moved closer, but he still insisted on driving me to school. He did not want me to walk alone. I have hardly had any money since I came to Norway. Once, my husband gave me money for lunch, but since I had so little money, I kept it. My friends at school want to help me to get a job, but my husband says I cannot. He does not think working as a cleaner is appropriate for me. Instead he had another job for me -- building a garage. He was the boss and I did everything. He could not do much because he was ill. He did not give me any of the money he made from building the garage. One day he said he was bored when he was home alone, so he decided we should get a dog. I did not want a dog as I was tired after school and I had homework to do. He said he would walk the dog every day, but in the end I had to take care of both the dog and my old husband. I do not know what the future will bring. My plan is to go to another school, but my husband does not want me to do that. He is planning to move further away to make it difficult for me. I want to resist, but I do not know how. It is not as easy to live in a foreign country with an old man as a husband as I thought it would be.

My heart feels a lot ofthings. I feel happy when mygranny tells us storiesin the evening. I feel silly when I playwith my friend. I feel bad when my dadsays he does not havemoney. I feel loved when mymom gives me a hug.

I am Timmy.This is my friend, Pepe, the puppy. I like to tease Pepe.I tell him I am better than him.He does not like it. “Look, I have a nose!” I say.“Woof,” says Pepe. That means he has a nose too. “Look, I have ears!” I say.“Woof,” says Pepe. That means he has ears too. “Look, I have eyes!” I say.“Woof,” says Pepe. That means he has eyes too. “Look, I can dance on my legs!” I say.“Woof, woof, woof,” says Pepe. That means he has legs too. “Look, I have a tongue!” I say.“Woof,” says Pepe. That means he has a tongue too. “I can think!” I say.“Wooooooof,” says Pepe. That means he can think better. “Look I have hands!” I say.“Grrrrrr...” Pepe says, and turns to show his little tail.That means he has a tail and I don't have one. But I love Pepe, the puppy and he loves me too. In the picture above find:* Eyes* Hands* Nose* Legs* Tongue* Ears

It's hard to be still,it's hard to be quiet. It's hard to say no,to toes that wiggle so. It's hard to keep downthese merry feet, When sounds all around tap a happy beat.Cheep, cheep, cheep call the sparrows. Drip, drip, drip goes the tap. SHEE... SHEEEE... SHEE... sings the cooker. Crunch, crunch, crunch...... uh oh, I know what that is! “Why little one, have you wandered so far, away from your books, your toys and your cars? Why indeed? There's nothing here to hear or to see.” I look up at mamma. I look in surprise. Can she not see?Can she not hear? The cheep, the drip, the sheee... ... and the crunch? A world full of sounds, all waiting to be found?

Once upon a time, there was afarmer and his wife who had onlyone child, a boy called Kisirusiru. One day as Kisirusiru was taking thegoats out, a goat's horn tore hisshirt.His mother sent him to the shop tobuy a needle so that he could mendhis shirt. Kisirusiru bought theneedle and put it in the pocket ofhis shirt. As he was going home, he foundboys playing football and joinedthem. The needle fell out of hispocket and got lost.When he reached home he told hismother what had happened."My child," said his mother, "nexttime put the needle on a piece ofpaper.""Yes mother, I understand," repliedKisirusiru. The next day, the boy picked up a pot to go and fetch water. Heremembered what his mother said, and wrapped the pot in a pieceof paper to carry it back home.But on the way the paper got torn and the pot fell down and brokeinto pieces, spilling the water on the ground.When he got home, his mother patiently explained, "My child, nexttime put the pot on your head. Then you'll be able to carry itwithout spilling.""Yes mother, I understand," said Kisirusiru.  The following day, Kisirusiru's fathertold him to take the goats out tograze.He remembered what his motherhad said, and put the goat on hishead.The goat kicked and scratchedKisirusiru's head. Soon blood waspouring down his face."When will you stop your stupidity?"said his father, exasperated."Goats are tied and pulled withropes! If you can't behave properly,you'll have to leave this house." The next day, the man sent his sonto go buy some meat at the market.Remembering what his father said,Kisirusiru tied a rope around themeat and started pulling it home.He ran very fast so as not to keephis father waiting.Imagine how the meat looked whenit reached home? His father was so angry he told himto pack his things and go away.When his mother heard this, shedecided to leave with her son.When they left, they took thekitchen door with them - to havesomething to start building a newhouse. They had walked for quite a whilebut could not find anywhere to buildtheir new house.When it became dark, they decidedto climb up a tree and sleep. They had just climbed the tree,pulling the door up after them,when they heard noises downbelow.They saw three dangerous lookingmen with huge sacks.They were so scared that they letgo of the door. It crashed to theground, terrifying the men so muchthat they ran away leavingeverything behind. Kisirusiru and his mother climbeddown the tree.When they opened the sacks, theyfound money, clothes, blankets,everything they needed to set uphouse.They soon found a place to buildthemselves a new house, and livedhappily ever after.

Swoosh came the wind. A sheet of paper floated in.Manju picked it up and sat down to draw the sun." Oh, this looks horrible! she said. Manju crumpled the paper and threw it out of the window. The paper fell on Wasim's head. “Ah, a ball!” he said happily. Wasim threw the crumpled paper ball up into the air and watched it come down. He threw it higher, and it came down faster. Wasim aimed the paper ball at Syeda, his sister.“Got you!” he shouted with glee. Syeda picked up the crumpled paper.She stuck a pencil into it and said, “Would you like this lollipop? When I am big, I am going to sell many kinds of lollipops in my sweet shop.” Just then, Bittu came in. “May I have the lollipop please?” he asked.He pretended to eat the sweet and then rolled up the crumpled paper.“Testing, testing, mike testing, one, two, three!” he said. “Now I am going to sing you a song.” Bittu finished singing a film song very loudly.Manju took the crumpled paper from Bittus hands.She smoothened the paper and made a boat. “Bittu, the famous singer will sail all around the world inthis big ship!”“May I come with you too?” asked Wasim. Wasim picked up the boat. Very carefully, he smoothened the paper.Then he folded it like a handkerchief. He cut out a corner. Then Wasim opened the paper. “Look here, all of you! Smile please!” he said as he held up the paper with a hole in the centre.Syeda, Bittu and Manju smiled. Then they grinned. Soon they were giggling. Wasim crumpled his paper camera. Just then, Anil came along with his donkey.He picked up Manju's pencil and drew lines around the hole in the paper. “That's the best sun I have ever seen!” said Manju. Anil's donkey grabbed the paper sun from Manju's hand and gobbled it up fast. He burped loudly. Then the donkey had a very strange look on his face.Now who can tell if it was because he had eaten very fast without chewing well, or if it was because he had eaten up the sun?

Where is the rat? Find the rat in the bucket. Where is it? Look, look! Find it under the bed. Where is it ?A a a a ! Are you behindthe door ?No, you are not behindthe door. Where are you?Are you in the bag?No, you are not in the bag. Are you in thesaucepan? No, you arenot in the saucepan. Where can you be?In the cupboard? Where, where?I can not find you. Are you under the mat?No, no. In the case, oh yes.I can see the rat in thecase.

Suraj has a very special ball. He calls it Sher Singh. One day, Suraj was playing in the park with Sher Singh, the tiger-ball. A dog picked up Sher Singh by his ear and shook him.Sher Singh opened the dog's mouth and flew out. A dog picked up Sher Singh by his ear and shook him.Sher Singh opened the dog's mouth and flew out. He landed on a slide and rolled down, down, down. A fat boy came sliding behind him. Ouch!Sher Singh pinched the fat boy. The boy jumped up, and Sher Singh rolled on. He landed in a play tunnel and rolled round and round and round. When Sher Singh jumped out, guess who was waiting for him?Suraj!

Tiny shoot begins toshow, A tiny plantbegins to grow. Reaching highertowards the sun,Reaching higher untilit's done. Now it's a big tree, leafyand green, Spreadingit's branches so it canbe seen. The branches arestrong now, sturdy andsteady, The tree needssome fruit now, thebranches are ready. First comes the flowers,then come the bees,Then after the beescome the fruit on thetrees. The mangoes arepicked by my fumblinghands, And put into bigbaskets to eat or makejams. This juicy, red mangolooks delicious andfresh, Inside of the skinis bright yellow flesh. Just one bite to taste it,sweet, juicy, cool, Thatone little taste ismaking me drool! My mango is finished, Iate it so fast, I must getanother and it won't bemy last!

Atabo and Akiru went tocollect water at theriver. On their way backhome they rested on abig rock. Atabo tried to stand upto continue home butwas stuck to the rock. Akiru ran home to callmother. When mother arrived atthe rock, she foundAtabo truly stuck. "I will make a fencearound the rock toprotect you from wildanimals," mother saidto Atabo. So, she made a fencewith only one doorwhich she used to getinside.Then mother said to Atabo, "When I come tofeed you I will sing a song for you to openthe door."This is the song she sang:"lka koku nachirima,Bala ekena,Ke...ke...i...ya.Tangarae totokonia kainak ngakon kile." And mother also said, "Never open the doorto a stranger."So whenever mother came she sang thesong, the door opened and she gave Atabofood.But Hyena was hidingand watching andlistening when mothercame to feed Atabo. Hyena tried to copy thesong. He practised andpractised. The other animals toldHyena to swallow a flyfrom the river so thathe could sing better.He swallowed a fly fromthe river and he cameto sing. But the door didnot open. He swallowed a fly fromthe plains and he cameto sing. But the door didnot open.Finally he swallowed afly from the far awayplains. He came to sing, andthe door opened.Hyena ate Atabo. When mother cameagain, she sang, andsang, and sang. Butnothing happened. Mother called ameeting of all theanimals and lit a verybig fire."The animal that ateAtabo will fall into thefire and burn," she said. All the animals jumpedsafely over the fire untilthe fox had a turn. Fox jumped and the firecaught his tail.He cried in pain. Last of all came thehyena.He jumped and fell inthe fire. Then the animals sanganother song:"Ata kalio,Anikanyamit ikon koku,Achakakin nakim na,Chi...gi...gir."

Grandma and Grandpa take Veeru to see Jumbo-Bumbo Circus.“This is going to be fun!” he tells them. Veeru is happy to see the tightrope walkers, the acrobats, the jugglers, and the funny red-nosed clown.“Wow!” says Veeru, again and again. That night Veeru dreams of having his own circus. Next morning he invites Mummy, Daddy, Grandma and Grandpa to ‘Veeru Circus'. Veeru the tightrope walker, plans to walk on a high rope.“This might be unsafe Veeru. You may fall down,” warns Mummy. So Veeru the tightrope walker, keeps the rope on the ground and walks on the rope. Everyone claps."Thank you, thank you," he says. Veeru the acrobat, plans to jump through a fire-lit ring.“This might be unsafe Veeru. You may burn yourself,” warns Daddy.So Veeru the acrobat takes a hula hoop and jumps through it. Everyone claps.“Thanks, thanks,” he says. Veeru the juggler, plans to juggle six balls. “This might be unsafe Veeru. The balls may fall on your head,” warns Grandpa.So Veeru the juggler, juggles one big laddoo. The laddoo lands inside his mouth. Everyone claps.“Thmmm you very mmmm!” he mumbles, munching the laddoo. Veeru the ring master, plans to have a caged lion for the trick. He has seen pictures of a circus lion in a book. “It is wrong to make a wild animal do tricks for us. The lion might get angry,” warns Grandma.So Veeru the ring master shakes hands with his pet dog Bozo.“Thanks Bozo,” says Veeru. Veeru the red-nosed clown, shakes his bottom. But 'PLOP' his pants fall down. Everyone laughs. “You were so funny,” Grandma tells Veeru.“What a wonderful circus we have seen!” say Mummy, Daddy, Grandpa and Grandma in chorus.

"Please Ma, may I help you make scarecrows?" asked Gauri.Ma was tying some sticks together to make a scarecrow. She put an old shirt over the sticks, and then stuffed it with hay. Gauri walked to the clothesline where the washed clothes were drying. She picked up a dress."I will dress her up in my new red frock and tie her hair with red ribbons too! She will look so lovely!" “You silly girl. You can't have a pretty scarecrow. Scarecrows have to scare the birds away, and so they must look scary! Like this!” said Mother, making a face and waving her arms.Gauri giggled. “You look so funny Ma!” Mother took the scarecrows into the fields and fixed them amidst the tall stalks of grain. "There now, be good scarecrows and chase the birds away," said Gauri, patting them. Gauri and her mother returned to their hut.Gauri went inside and lay on her cot.A big yellow moon was rising, bathing the field in a soft, white glow. Gauri saw a scarecrow look down at its clothes.“Why do we always have to wear these tattered old clothes?” said a scarecrow with a sigh. “I wish we had something pretty to wear!”“Yes, me too!” said another. The scarecrows looked around the field. Suddenly, one of them called out, “Hey, look at those lovely clothes flapping in the breeze. Why don't we wear those?”“Oo-oo! These clothes are so pretty. Let us try them on!” said another. One scarecrow tried on a lovely red dress with sequins on them. It sparkled in the moonlight. She tied the pretty red ribbons that were flapping in the breeze on her straw hair. Thrilled with her new clothes she began to show them off. Soon, all the scarecrows were busy dressing up! They began to parade. They walked! They turned! They twisted! They twirled!They tossed their empty mud-pot heads, and smiled their crooked mud-pot smiles. They were having a wonderful time! At the same time, hundreds of birds flew down to the fields. Birds here, birds there, birds everywhere. Beaks smacking! Beaks munching! Beaks chomping!"Mmm! This is delicious!" said one, as she wiped her beak with her wing. “It is not everyday that we can eat in the fields, without being shooed away by the scarecrows.” The scarecrows heard this and looked around. They were horrified!“Shoo! Be gone!” they shouted at the birds, waving their straw hands wildly, to and fro. Gauri screamed. Her mother came running.“Gauri, Gauri, what is the matter? Wake up!”“Oh Ma, the birds! They are eating up all the grain.”Her mother held her tight, and said, “Shh, my child! Look at the fields. They are safe! It must be a bad dream.” Gauri looked out.She saw the scarecrows, standing just where they were placed. Oh, wait a minute, were they waving to her? She looked closer.She saw a red ribbon fluttering on a scarecrow's hair. She blinked and looked again. Did the scarecrow just wink at her?

The wind roars.It roars past our home. The wind is powerful.It tears my kite from my hand. I run after my kite.The wind blows me away from the kite! The wind becomes a tornado.It carries my kite higher and higher. The tornado swallows me up!I see nothing, I touch nothing. Where is my kite now?Perhaps it is caught in a tree. Perhaps my kite is still flying in the sky. The wind finally dies down.I am still spinning. When I stop spinning I look around.Where did the wind go? I cannot see my kite anywhere.I cannot hear the wind anymore. Perhaps tomorrow I will find my kite.Now, I must go home, before the wind starts to roar again.

Meet my friend Helen. She was bornin a little Karoo town called NieuBethesda. There was not muchgoing on in this town. But she madea whole world here. She even mademe. And she named her house afterme.It was called 'The Owl House'. Most of Helen's nine brothers andsisters were grown up and gone bythe time she arrived. But she stillhad her sisters Annie and Alida.Helen didn't have many friends inthe village, but she didn't mind.From the start, Helen did thingsdifferently from most people. After her sisters left home, Helenlived alone with her parents. Sheloved her mother, but she hated herfather. Everyone agreed he was avery strange man.Her big sister Alida travelled all overthe world. One day she sent Helen apostcard from Egypt.In her mind Helen saw princes andpyramids and camels in the sand. As she grew older, Helen read morestories of faraway places. Sheespecially liked poems from Persiain the Middle East.She dreamed of visiting the oceanone day. She kept a seashell on herbedside table, and imagined shecould hear the sound of wavesinside it.But of course, owls were always herfavourite things of all! Helen loved books and stories somuch that she decided to become ateacher. She was very good at ittoo. But then she met JohannesPienaar. He was also a teacher, anda writer and actor.He convinced her to run away withhim. Helen and Johannes got married.They travelled to many differenttowns, teaching and performingplays. Helen thought she mightstart a family like her sisters haddone. But it was not to be. She andher husband were always fighting.When Helen's mother became verysick, she decided it was time to goback home. Helen was not happy. Her motherwas so sick, and her father was sogrumpy. She kept to herself. Peoplethought she was strange.The night her mother died, Helenkept a candle burning beside herbed all night.With the help of that little light,Helen didn't feel so afraid of thedark.And remember, we owls were theretoo.We watched over her, calling woowooh! Helen decided she wantedbrightness in her life. She began bychanging the space around her. Sheneeded helpers. Three men fromthe village, Jonas Adams, Piet vander Merwe, and Koos Malgas, madethe things she imagined out of wireand cement. She filled her backgarden with interesting creatures.There were sphinxes and camels,mermaids and cats.And lots and lots of owls! She calledit her camel yard.On the fence she made a wire sign.It said: "This is my world." During the day Helen madesculptures. At night, she practisedcatching light.She collected glasses and mirrors,candles and lamps. Anything thatwould shine.She put lanterns in every room.Mirrors caught and reflected thelight. She covered the walls inglittering glass so that they couldshine too.After Helen's father died, she hadthe house to herself. Each night sheslept in a different room.She would always choose the onewith the best view of the moon andthe stars. The people of Nieu Bethesda wouldwalk past Helen's garden andmarvel at the creatures in it.Some of the village children broughther glass bottles for her sculpturesand called her "Miss Helen." Shealways thanked them with sweets.Others were not so friendly. Theycalled her names and threw stoneson her roof. Miss Helen spent all hermoney on glass and cement. Shelived on bread and black tea. In herdiary she wrote:"In my loneliness I am happy." The garden grew and grew, untilthere was hardly space left for anymore creatures.Miss Helen was tired now. Herhands were stiff and sore. Her eyeswere going blind from working withtiny bits of glass.She wasn't afraid of being alone.But she was still afraid of the dark.And her world was getting darkerand darker. She knew that soon shewouldn't be able to see anything atall. But when she closed her eyes forthe last time, Miss Helen didn't seedarkness. She saw the sun and themoon and the stars. She saw wisemen and mermaids, camels andcats, acrobats and owls with bigbrown glittering glass eyes.And we still stand here today, justthe way she left us, in the gardenshe made, looking East.

Anu loves to look at things,big things and small.Houses on hills,ants on a wall. Things in the kitchen,things on the shelf.Things in the garden,things on herself. Anu sees patternsand shapes everywhere,nothing at all can escape her stare! Spots on a ladybird,circles in trees,shapes made by people,shapes made by bees. Lines on a leaf, justlike lines on her hand.The marks of her feetin wet seaside sand. Waves in the water,waves in her hair.Mushrooms on treetrunks, birds in the air. Words in a book thatcan take her to places,full of new colours,new stories, new faces. Things of the colour thatshe loves best - RED!The three wiggly hairs onher brother Boo's head. Sprinkles on the cakeDaddy baked today,like the stars that twinkleat her from far away. Rabbits in cloudsfloating up in the sky.Elephants in shadows -come, give it a try! Anu is happy with thethings that she sees.Do you also see whatlittle Anu sees?

Once long ago, the birds had a meeting. They wanted a king, just like people and animals. Which bird should be king? "The Eagle, he is strong and kingly!" said one. "No, he has no crown, and when he calls, he sounds too sad," said another. "Then Ostrich, because he is the largest and roars like a lion," one called out. "No, he can't fly. The king of the birds must be able to fly." "I think I should be king," said Peacock, fanning his tail. "I am so beautiful." "You are too proud," said Owl. "I have the largest eyes of any bird. I should be king." "No, not you, Owl," they shouted. "You go to sleep when the sun rises." And so they didn't get very far. Then one bird had an idea. "He who can fly the highest will be king," he said. "Yes, yes," they shouted, and they all flew up, up, into the sky. The Goose flew for one day, straight over the highest mountains in the world. The Eagle flew for two days into the blue above the mountains. But the Vulture soared for three whole days without stopping, straight toward the sun. Way above them, the birds heard Vulture cry, "I am the highest, I am king!" But then just above him Vulture heard a tiny voice, "Tink, tink, tink! I am the highest, I am king." It was Ncede, the Neddicky, the smallest bird of all! He had held onto the great wing feathers of Vulture as he soared into the sky! "You won't beat me again," said Vulture, and soared straight up into the air. He flew up and up until he could fly no more. "I am higher than any other bird. I am your king!" he cried. But out from under his wing crept the tiny bird. "Tink, tink! Tink, tink! It is I, the smallest one! I am your king." Vulture was too exhausted to fly any further. So down he sailed - with the little bird still under his wing. The other birds were furious with Ncede. They waited for him, ready to pluck out all his feathers. But the quick little bird saw how angry they were, and flew into an empty snake hole. "With your big eyes, you must keep guard at the hole and catch him when he comes out," they said to Owl. So Owl sat in front of the hole. But the sun was warm and soon Owl was fast asleep. The little bird peeped out, saw that Owl was asleep, and z-zip, away he went. Owl was very ashamed that he had let the little bird escape. Now he only hunts at night. In the day, he sleeps, away from the sight of the other birds.

There was a big dark jungle.There were lots of trees and a narrow path. Many animals and birds lived here. One day, all the animals came together.“Did you hear?” asked Tota, the parrot.“Yes,” said Hirni, the deer.“What?” asked Darpok, the rabbit.“We have a school in the jungle,”answered Zhoola, the monkey.Mota, the elephant wondered, “Hmph?”Lamboo, the giraffe said, “Oh, good!”Dheema, the snail squealed, “Hurry, let's go!” Tota, the parrot flew ahead.Zhoola, the monkey jumped from tree to tree. Poorakha, the python slithered fast.“Here!” shouted Tota. “Can you read?”“It is upside down, I think,” said Zhoolahanging by the branch.Poorakha concluded, “Hisssss. No one can read.” Soon, all the other friends joined them.Lamboo looked over the tree. “No one here,” he said.Zhoola repeated, “No one here.”Tota proposed, “Look carefully!”Pilloo, the little bear declared, “I found a room!” “I found a swing,” announced Dheema.“What are these blocks?” Darpok wanted to know.“What is this?” was Zhoola's question.Poorakha explained, “I believe, this is a pencil.” Mota and Lamboo found a classroom.They called the others, “Look, what is this?”Everyone came with school bags.They began shouting, “Teacher! Teacher!Where is our teacher?”No one knew. Then they heard a roar.They heard a loud roar.They heard a louder roar.Poorakha was worried. Dheema was scared. Tota hid behind the board. Lamboo and Zhoola were puzzled.Who is this? “Hup!” said Zhoola the monkey. No one spoke. Who is this?“Hup!” said Zhoola the monkey.No one spoke.They all looked at the teacher. Up and down carefully.Then they looked at one another.The teacher turned to write on the black board. “Jump,” said Zhoola.“Fly!” said Tota.Thump, thump, thump ran Mota.“Run, run, run fast,” screamed Dheema.“Bhagoooo,” they all shouted together.When the teacher turned... there was no one in the class.

This is my school. It is called the balwadi. My brother Mannu and I go to the balwadi.It is a small school for little children like us. We leave our shoes and slippers by the door.Everyone puts their shoes or slippers in a line.It looks good that way. We leave our tiffin boxes near the wall.Some boxes are big. Others are small.Water bottles are hung on the wall.The bottles are of different colours. Red, blue, green, yellow. I like to count. Mannu plays with blocks and puts different shapes together. He likes to play with beads. I like the cards with dots.Our teacher says playing with these toys is good for the brain. We read books. Some books have pictures.The teacher helps us to learn the letters. She says I will read soon because I can recognize all the letters. I can also read sentences.She does not know it. Now it is time for stories. Our teacher has puppets.The teacher uses the puppets to tell us stories.The puppets speak in a funny voice. My friends think that the puppets can speak. They are surprised.But I am not. Puppets do not talk.I know that it is the teacher who speaks in a funny voice for them. It is now time to play. The school has a tub with some play dough. Mannu likes to make shapes out of the dough. I like to make fruits, toys and other things.At 4 o'clock, the school bell rings. My mother comes to take us home. I hug her first. Mannu does not like that. He complains. I have fun at school. But going home is more fun.

When Neymar arrivedin Africa he landed inthe capital city ofNigeria. The Nigerianstold him to demonstratethe skill of passing theball using the instep. From Nigeria, he movedto Ghana todemonstrate passingthe ball using the insideof the foot. This madeall the people in Ghanavery happy. While in Ghana,Neymar received aninvitation from SouthAfrica to demonstratetrapping the ball usingthe front of the foot. From South Africa, hemoved to Chad. In Chadhe demonstratedtrapping the ball usingthe side of the foot. When Neymar reachedDR Congo, he shook thecountry with the skill oftrapping the ball usingthe thigh. The Ugandans whowatched Neymar in theCongo decided to invitehim to demonstrate theskill of tackling. This news then spreadall over East Africa. TheKenyans welcomedNeymar to demonstratepunching in goalkeeping. The same week theTanzanians called forNeymar to demonstratethe skill of heading inpassing the ball. He later moved toRwanda to demonstratethe skill of passing theball using the outside ofthe foot. After Rwanda, Neymarconcluded his Africantrip in South Sudan,where he demonstratedthe skill of punting ingoal keeping.

The royal orchard looked lush after the rains. The earth was soft and wet and had a delightful fragrance. The trees looked like they had been washed and each leaf looked like it had been polished by hand.The head gardener was getting a new tree planted. He directed his helpers to a pit that had been prepared just that morning. The young tree was carefully lowered. All along, the head gardener kept saying, “I will lose my job and all of you will rot in the darkest chambers of the palace if this tree does not survive. And if it blooms, you won't have to work another day in your life. You will all be handsomely rewarded.”As an offering to Mother Earth, he threw in sugar cane juice, before the roots of the young tree were patted with mud. Just then the King and his young prince stepped into the orchard.This was to be the first walk among the trees for the prince with his father. “Father, what is this sapling?” asked the prince, pointing to a plant. “It is a pomegranate sapling. The tree that will have the most beautiful flowers...”The prince watched his father admiring the trees around them with love and care. PomegranateIt is hard to say which is more beautiful - a pomegranate fruit or the brilliant red flower. The fruit has a deep red colour and is the size of a cricket ball.It has leathery skin and when it is opened, you find many red, juicy seeds, which look as though they are made of glass. Each seed has a woody, crunchy centre. Some fruits are yellowish pink and have pink seeds. These are also very tasty.The pomegranate tree grows to about three metres. The long and narrow leaves are shiny and the branches have a few thorns. In the spring, the tree is covered with scarlet flowers. The petals look as though they are made of crinkly paper.These flowers have no smell. The petals grow out of a red part called the calyx. After the petals fall, the calyx begins to grow bigger and bigger till it becomes a pomegranate with a crown. Pomegranate juice is very tasty and is taken to bring down fever. Pomegranates contain plenty of natural sugars and vitamin C. The dried seeds are made into sour anardana, which is a spice used to flavour pakoras and aloo paranthas. The rind of the pomegranate is dried and powdered and taken to cure an upset stomach.Pomegranates are called anar in Hindi. One of the most renowned dancers in the court of Mughal emperor Akbar was called Anarkali — bud of the anar — because she was so beautiful.Some pomegranates are called kandhari, as once they were only grown in a place called Kandahar, in Afghanistan. JackfruitThe jackfruit grows on a tall tree with a thick foliage of dark green leaves. The jackfruit does not grow just on the branches like other fruit, but also on the tree trunk.Another amazing fact is that when the jackfruit tree turns very old, the fruit can also grow on those roots which come outabove the ground.The large, oblong fruits can sometimes weigh as much as 40 kilograms. Their rough skins are covered with conical studs. When jackfruits are young they are green and eaten as a vegetable, but when they are ripe and turn yellowish-brown they are eaten as a fruit. The ripe fruit has a strong characteristic smell and not everyone likes it. The seeds of the jackfruit are also very tasty. They can be roasted and eaten. Fried jackfruit makes delicious chips. When sugared and dried, the fruits make excellent candy. The leaves are warmed and used to foment wounds and stop swellings.The wood of this tree is not attacked by termites. An orange dye is made by boiling the wood. This is used to colour the robes of Buddhist monks. When two sticks of the jackfruit tree are rubbed together, fire can be produced.The tree is very ancient and it is mentioned in Sanskrit texts as the panas. It is the largest tree-borne fruit in the world. This tree has its origin in India. The fruit is very nutritious, as it has carbohydrates, proteins, some fats and vitamins. PapayaWhen we cut open a golden orange papaya, we find a lot of shiny, black seeds that look like whole black pepper. Can you imagine how many trees can grow from each fruit — at least 500! But not all the trees that grow from the seeds will give us fruit. This is because some trees have flowers that are male and other trees have flowers that are female.When we plant many papaya trees together, it ensures that cross-pollination takes place and the ‘female' trees bear fruit. The fragrance of papaya flowers is very sweet. Insects and birds help in pollination and little papaya fruits begin to form. The tree has big leaves that are thickly veined. When they dry, they fall off leaving a scar on the trunk. The wood of the trunk is not hard. It is soft inside, rather like the stem of a big plant.Papayas are very nutritious, with lots of vitamin C and A, and calcium too. Raw papayas are used as a tasty vegetable. Papayas have an enzyme called papain, which is useful for digestion. Raw papaya helps in tenderizing meat.Ripe papaya pulp is good for skin problems and is used to get rid of spots and blemishes on the skin. Papayas came from Mexico and Central America. But they are seen almost everywhere in India! BananaSome banana trees are as tall as a single-storeyed house while others are only as tall as a person. The leaves are sometimes one-and-a-half metres long and over half a metre broad, with a thick rib running through the centre.The new leaves have a fresh green colour but as they grow older, they become darker and get torn at the edges. The trunk of the banana has no bark. It is actually a thick stem made of the stems of the leaves that are tightly wound around each other.The flowers of the banana tree grow inside a reddish cone. Hundreds of tiny white flowers can be found inside each cone. As many as a hundred bananas can grow together in a bunch. When the bananas are almost ripe, the bunch is cut down and left to ripen. Raw bananas are eaten as a vegetable. Delicious chips can be made from raw bananas. Banana flowers are used to make tasty curries. Monkeys and elephants love bananas. An elephant can eat many bunches by himself!Bananas are nutritious as they have many vitamins such as A, B and C, as well as calcium, which is needed for our bones to grow strong.It is also a good source of minerals like potassium and magnesium. Bananas are considered auspicious by Hindus and are offered during a puja. When there is a wedding or a puja, the trees or bunches of bananas are used to decorate both sides of the entrance to the house. The leaves make wonderful, natural plates. The leaves are also used to make cups. JamunThe jamun tree is tall and graceful, with a grey-brown bark and deep green, long oval pointed leaves. The trees always have dense foliage. They grow about 12 metres tall. Children love to play beneath their deep shade. The bark is smooth but the wood is weak so the trees are not very safe to climb.From March to May, the tree is full of bunches of tiny creamy flowers, which bees and other insects love for their nectar. We all wait for the rains, when the jamun gives delicious, deep purple fruit with a stone in the centre. The ripe fruit is sweet-sour and good to eat. Ask any parrot or squirrel, or even fruit bats that come to eat the juicy berries at night!Jamun trees often grow wild in forests and according to Hindu legend, Krishna loved to eat the fruit when he grazed his cows. The dark purple colour of the fruit is supposed to be the same colour as Krishna's complexion. Lord Ganesh is supposed to love this fruit too. The tree is also sacred to Shiva and Vishnu. This tree is originally from India. The name jamun, comes from the word Jambu Dweep, as India was once known in the olden days, since it was supposed to be full of jamun trees!Ripe jamuns are very tasty when they are eaten with rock salt.In the forests when wild jamuns fall from the tree they are eaten by bears, deer, monkeys and other small animals.The bark and seeds of the jamun are dried and powdered and then used as a medicine for diabetes. The fruit is rich in fruit sugar, iron and vitamin C. GuavaGuavas are really delicious! Ripe yellow ones are tasty, but the crunchy green ones are mouth-watering too, especially when sprinkled with salt and masala.Have you seen a guava tree? It is not very tall, possibly as tall as a single storeyed house. The trunk is slender with a grey-ochre bark that peels off in strips. The leaves are oval and rough to touch. The tree is full of beautiful, five-petalled white flowers, towards the end of winter and then again at the time of the rains.When these flowers fall, small green guavas begin to appear. At first, the fruit is green and hard. As it ripens, it becomes softer and the colour becomes a creamy gold.The flesh is white and in the centre, there are lots of woody seeds. Some guavas have pink flesh. These are also very tasty. Another type of guava is deep red on the outside. Guavas that ripen in the winter are always tastier than those found during the rest of the year. In India, Allahabadi guavas are famous for their taste.There are so many guava trees in India that it is hard to believe that they came from Brazil in South America. Sailors travelling from those parts, brought the seeds of guavas with them.Parrots and monkeys love guavas. It is believed that a guava pecked by a parrot will be sweet!Guavas are very good for us as they are full of vitamin A and C. The tree has other uses too. The leaves are mashed and used to relieve toothache. The bark is used to make a dye for colouring silk. CoconutGraceful coconut trees grow in sandy soil, in the tropics where the weather is warm and wet. Coastal areas have the largest number of coconut trees. This tall tree has a slim trunk, which bends with the strong breeze that blows in coastal areas. Because it bends, it does not break.The water inside green coconuts is very tasty and nutritious. It has sugar, protein, amino acids, and minerals like calcium, iron and copper, and vitamins. As the fruit becomes ripe, it turns brown and hard and the water inside becomes sweeter, until it is quite dry. Coconut oil is extracted from the flesh when the nut turns brown and woody.Each coconut leaf has a long central rib with smaller hard leaves growing on either side. Waving in the breeze, coconut leaves resemble the feathers of some giant bird. The leaves are plaited to make baskets and mats, and also to make thatched roofs. The hollowed out trunk is used as boats. It is amazing that even the husk, that encloses the shell of the coconut, is used for making ropes, mats, brushes and to stuff mattresses.All over the world, the coconut tree is prized for its different uses. Sometimes it is known as the tree of heaven. It is supposed to have come from the Melanesian islands in the Pacific Ocean.If you had no other tree but the coconut, you could build a house, have a meal and a cool drink, make clothes from leaves, make a broom and even have a soft mattress to sleep on! Can you think of any other uses?The coconut is a symbol of prosperity. “Father, why are these trees so special to you?” asked the prince. “Son, these trees grow in different parts of India and during my travels to different states, I have chosen the most delicious fruit trees of those regions. They all need different kinds of climate to survive. But, here, our soil is so rich and our gardeners so dedicated, that they have been able to raise all these trees. Look at this one. It is a ber tree.” BerSometimes on the way to school or walking around the edges of fields, we come across ber bushes. They are thorny, but the little red fruit with a stone in the centre is worth plucking because it is very tasty.There are many different types of bers, some grow on trees with graceful, drooping branches whereas others grow on bushes. Some are round and others have a longish shape, but they all have a wonderful flavour. Ber trees can be about six metres tall and the bushes are only about one metre high. The ber tree and the ber bush are both thorny. The trees have longer thorns and that is why when bers are ripe, people take a long stick with a sharp knife at the end of it, to cut down ripe bers. Sometimes, if the branch is shaken hard, the ripe fruit drops down and can be collected. Ber trees grow in dry places where it does not rain too much. The leaves are eaten by goats, camels and cattle.Silkworms also eat the leaves of the ber. Another very interesting insect called the lac insect lives on the branches of the ber. The insect sucks the juice and secretes a red substance called lac, from which paints, varnishes and dyes are made. OrangeWe all wait for juicy oranges in the beginning of winter. The tangy smell of a peeled orange is unmistakable. It comes from the oil in the rind.The orange is easy to eat because it can be peeled and each section eaten separately. It is also a great thirst quencher on a hot day.Oranges are full of vitamin C, which keeps colds and coughs away. They also have calcium which is good for strong bones. Orange juice is a popular drink and the flavour of oranges is used in many food products.The best oranges in India come from Nagpur. The trees are about six metres tall, and somewhat thorny. The leaves are dark green and glossy. If you crush a leaf between your fingers, it has a strong tangy smell. If you sit near flowering orange trees, the perfume is very soothing. That is why the flowers are dried and then stuffed into pillows for a good beauty sleep.The rind of the orange is dried and mixed with gram flour to make a scrub for the skin. This can be used instead of soap. In the olden days, ladies in China carried oranges in their hands to keep them smelling sweet.It is thought that the orange tree came from the southern parts of China. Some people think that its origin lies in the foothills of the Himalayas. ChikooWhen round, brown chikoos grow on trees, they remind us of soft, brown balls. The skin is a bit fuzzy, and the brownish flesh within is very sweet and has a grainy texture. The chikoo has shiny, long, black seeds inside. The leaves of the tree are longish and glossy. The tree can reach a height of about 10 metres.This tree was brought from South America many years ago where the Aztec Indians called the tree Chicle. They tapped the bark for the rubbery gum that oozes out of it and made an ancient chewing gum from it. This is how the idea of making chewing gum came to people's minds in modern times. The word chikoo comes from chicle.Chikoos grow best in warm and humid places. The best chikoos come from Maharashtra and central India. In some parts of the world, the chikoo is known as the Sapodilla.This fruit has a very high sugar content. It also has a good amount of vitamin C. In some places, the seeds are made into a paste to cure insect bites and stings. Chikoo ice cream is delicious. Have you tried it? TamarindThe tamarind tree grows to a height of over 20 metres. It has a long straight trunk with dark brown bark. The branches are strong and supple and droop downwards. The tiny leaves are of a fresh green colour and form graceful, feathery foliage. They are also sour like the tamarind and are nice to eat.The tamarind has beautiful yellow flowers with thin streaks of red. When the flower dries up, its place is taken by a tamarind pod. The pod is green and gradually turns a light brown as it ripens. It is like suede to touch.When it ripens in winter, it becomes a deep brown and the pulp inside is sour with a hint of sweetness. Tamarind seeds are dark brown and enclosed inside the pulp. Squirrels and birds love to eat ripe tamarind. Children also love raw tamarind dipped in rock salt, though it can give them a sore throat sometimes.Tamarind is used to make delicious curries, pickles, chutneys and tangy jal jeera, which is not only cooling in Summer, but also delicious with gol gappas. Tamarind is very rich in iron and vitamin C. The seeds are dried and powdered and can be used as a flour. Tender tamarind leaves and tamarind flowers are also used in cooking.The tree gives very dense shade in summer. There are many superstitions in India about the tamarind tree. People believe that ghosts live on its branches and that one must not sleep under it at night.If you look closely at the leaves of a tamarind tree at night, you will notice that they fold up. Of course, the truth is that, because the big tree breathes out carbon dioxide, it is not healthy to sleep under it at night. It is thought that many, many years ago, the tree was brought from Africa. It began to grow very well in this country and now it is very hard to believe that it came from another country. “Father, what will this new tree grow up to be?” asked the prince excitedly. The King looked at the young tree and then at his son. “Just as you will be king some day, this young tree will grow to bear the king of fruits — the mango! Wait for some time and you will get to taste a fruit like none other.” MangoWho doesn't love delicious mangoes! They are equally tasty, whether they are ripe and golden or green and sour when they are raw and eaten with a bit of salt. We all wait eagerly for the summer season when the mango fruit ripens. It has been rightly called the king of fruitsin India.There are many types of mangoes. Some are big and yellow and can weigh almost a kilogram; others are tiny, green and juicy and have to be sucked to be really enjoyed.You can throw a whole lot of mangoes in a bucket of ice water and when they are cool, sit under a tree and enjoy them. It is a good practice to wear old clothes and eat mangoes because their juice can ruin clothes.In India, we have more than a thousand different varieties of mangoes. Wild mango trees originally grew in the Himalayan foothills and spread from there to the rest of the world. The mango tree is about 15 metres tall. Old trees can sometimes grow up to 30 metres. Some mango trees in orchards are just about three metres tall. The trunk is a dark brown and the long leaves are pointed at the tips. The crushed leaves have a sharp scent. The mango flowers at the end of the cold weather. The bunches of the little pale yellow flowers have a sweet smell. Honey bees gather nectar from them.Mango leaves are strung on a thread and hung over a doorway, when there is a wedding or any other ceremonial celebration in Hindu households. The motif of a mango can also be found in Indian textiles, saris and various Indian handicrafts. Mango leaves, seeds and flowers are all used for medicine. Mango has lots of vitamin C, which helps us to fight off colds, coughs and gives us healthy gums. Vitamins A and B are also found in this fruit.After admiring the trees for a while the King and his son headed back to the palace. The prince turned back. He smiled and thought to himself, 'Yes, I like our orchard and all its trees, just like father. I will soon grow to be a king and you will too,' and waved to the young swaying mango tree. Green GyanTrees are the tallest of all plants in the world and they were present on the earth much before human beings appeared.Trees grow on mountains, along seashores and in hot deserts. We find them growing along the edges of roads, in fields and in our homes and gardens. All plants and trees are necessary for life on earth as they provide oxygen that living beings need to survive.Most plants have a green colouring matter in their leaves called chlorophyll. During the day, when sunlight falls on the leaves, the leaves prepare food for the plants by a process called photosynthesis. They do this with the help of the water absorbed by the roots, the carbon dioxide from the air that enters the leaves through tiny pores on the surface of the leaf, and sunlight. Oxygen is let out into the air as a result of photosynthesis. There are thousands of different types of trees but the ones that give us delicious fruit are the best of them all. All trees bear fruit. However, all fruits are not edible. Some may even be poisonous!But trees are our special friends. They give us shade on a hot day; they provide us with food, timber and medicines. When trees grow over a large area, they form forests. Forests affect the climate of a place, prevent soil erosion and provide a habitat for a variety of animals.We must look after trees and plant trees if we can, so that we have a healthy environment.

Long long ago when the earth was new,great mountains covered the world like ablanket, and tall trees spiked the sky. In this world, there was a deep dark pool, silentand cold. At the bottom of this pool weretwo snakes.One had thick stronglypatterned coils, and the otherwas smaller and more delicate. Then one day, there was a great storm.A flash of lightning pierced right to the bottomof the pool.The waters parted for a moment.The snakes saw the earth above, full of coloursand shapes and feathered creatures.When the waters closed again, the snakescould not forget the beauty they had seen. "We cannot stay in this dark cold pool any longer," they said to each other."Let us go up and see the earth above.""How will we live on earth?" said the smaller snake."Will we crawl on our bellies?" "The birds of the air will not laugh at us forbeing so low," said her friend."We will not crawl, we will walk!"Very slowly the snakes uncoiled themselves.Close together they began to swim up, up, tothe light above. And as they reached the surface of the water,a strange thing happened.The tips of their tails split into two.They grew limbs with feet and toes.From just beneath their heads grew two armswith hands and fingers. They were no longer snakes, but Man and Woman. "We will make our home in thehills," said Woman. "Eachmorning we will see the sun riseand feel it warm on our backs.""We will look after the grassand the trees," said Man. "Andbe friends with Bird and Beast." "Come," said First Man."I will," said First Woman.And they walked out together into their new world.

In a small garden in the city, therewas a big tree. Many small animalslived together on the big tree.There also lived a family ofsquirrels.Vikki was one little squirrel amongthem who liked to talk big. Hiscousin, Kato from Far Forest hadcome to visit him. One evening, as all the animals wholived in the little garden were justgoing to sleep, they heard loudsounds from the park, next to thelittle garden. Kato and the other squirrels saw bigyellow machines, and men in hardyellow hats, pointing to the littlegarden and other houses on thestreet.They were going to pull them alldown and build a parking lot. The people who lived there wouldmove to other houses. No one gavea thought to the animals, birds andinsects who lived in the littlegarden. The machines were first spotted bythe mole family. To be more exact,by Mister Popples, the eldest whotold Master Mopples, who in turntold the youngest, Little Popples. When they were young they werecalled Pop, Mop and Pip. Mister Popples told the squirrels, the squirrels told the birds,caterpillars, butterflies, tiny spiders and all those who lived in thelittle garden.There was total panic, a lot of running, flying, scurrying andhopping, with no one knowing what to do? Where to go?The caterpillars said, "Let us look for leaves." The butterflies said,"We want flowers." The mice wanted holes. The squirrels, birds,insects wanted trees, bushes and grass.All the animals wanted the soft earth, not cement or concrete."Where will we find all this?" they cried. "We will surely die," theysaid and wept. Kato's uncle and aunt were very quiet and all thelittle squirrels crept close to their mom.Kato cleared his throat and spoke shyly, "I live in theFar Forest, may be we can all go there?"There was a buzz of excitement and someone said,"How?"Kato scratched his head and thought hard, "Well, theSquirrel Express can take the squirrels and thebutterflies, spiders caterpillars and all the insects.The birds can either fly or come with us. The moles,mice and the grass snake family can go by theunderground Mole Express." Everyone thought it was a splendid idea.Mister Popples rushed to ask Mister Grumbles, thedriver of the underground express train if he couldtake them all to the Far Forest. Mister Grumblesfumbled, stumbled, bumbled before he finallymumbled, "Alright."Now it was Mister Popples' turn to be grand. "Friends,you need not wory, my grandfather'sgrandson's...third nephew's second niece's familylive in the Far Forest. So, in the early hours of themorning the Squirrel Express andthe Mole underground train with allits passengers, chugged their wayto the Far Forest with its trees,flowers, ponds and soft earth.

Sister, sister I wonder...What do you wonder, little brother,What do you wonder?I wonder, I wonder,Where thunder comes from.Where do you think, little brother,Where do you think?I think, I thinkTell me, little brother,What do you think? I thinkThat there is a great big KumbhakarnaSleeping in the skyAnd when the silver ropes of rainLash him, and chase his sleep away,He wakes up.Sparks fly out of his eyes like lightningHe stamps his big ugly feetTakes a long deep breathAnd ROARS with rage. (Let me tell you If I had thrown a tantrum like that Mother would have spanked me.Hard.)I think that'sWhere the thunder comes fromFrom the fury of aKumbhakarna in the skyWho likes to stay asleep, and dry.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Oh yes you are, little brother, oh yes you are.And maybe you're right, too...But in the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,What do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother, What do you think? I thinkThere is a gang of crazy bikersUp there in the skyIn their black leather jacketsAnd steel-studded bootsAnd dark glasses that hide their eyesJust like in the movies.And what they like to do bestIs to race each other in the pouring rain. I thinkWhen they mount their bikes andKICK them to lifeSteel strikes steelThere's your lightning!Then, when they do what bikers doRev up their engines, and rrrev them,and rrrev themThere's your thunder! I think that's where the thunder comes fromNot from a demon,not from a plane,But from a fleet of bikes that race in the rain.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? I know you are, little brother, I know you areAnd maybe you're right, too...But in all the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,What do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother, What do you think? I thinkThat when it rainsThe childrenOf the old woman in the skyAre absolutely NOT allowedTo play outside (for they may catch a cold!).Cooped up indoorsThey all get a little restless,and VERY cranky. I think the old woman opens her trunkPulls out a game of chaupadAnd a pair of giant dice.The children clap their hands in excitementRoll the giant diceAnd forget they were ever bored.I think that's where the thunder comes fromFrom the dance of a pair of diceAs they make their way across the skies.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Of course you are, little brother,And maybe you're right, too...But in all the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?Come here, little brother,I'll tell you what they said.They said, they said...Tell me sister, what did they say? They saidThat thunder always comes after lightning.But you know that, don't you?And thatIt is the lightningThat makes the thunder. The lightning is like ELEC-TRI-CITYThe same magic ELEC-TRI-CITYThat runs the pumpAnd floods the house with lightAnd fills the TV with Sachin and SauravAt the flip of a switch.But I asked about thunder, sister,I asked about thunder.Have patience, little brother,Have patience now. They said that lightning is very hotJust like electricity.And when it slices through the airAnd stabs the earthIt makes the air through which it comesVery Very Very hot.They saidThe hot air EXPANDSAnd explodes BOOOOOOM!Like a monster Diwali bomb. And some little childrenBury their facesIn their mothers' sarees.But brave little boys like youHear the air go BOOOOOOM!Turn around quickly.Can it be true, sister, can it be true?I can't say, little brother, I can't say.But in all the books that I have readThat is what they said.FIND OUT MORE!Where does thunder come from?Everything around us is made up of tiny particles called atoms. Each atom has a nucleus at the centre, which is filled with particles called neutrons and positively charged particles called protons. Even tinier particles (negatively charged) called electrons go around the nucleus like the planets go around the sun.In a thundercloud, air carries bits of ice and water droplets upwards. When they rub against each other, the atoms in them become ions (that is, they become charged positively or negatively). The positive ions are lighter and move upwards, while the heavier negative ions move downwards to the bottom of the cloud.The negative ions at the bottom of the cloud attract the positive ions on the earth. When they start flowing towards each other, electricity is created, which becomes a huge, powerful flash of lightning.The lightning makes the air around it very, very hot almost as hot as the sun! This hot air expands very quickly, causing a big explosion. It then begins to contract equally quickly once the lightning flash has passed. This explosion of air is what causes the sound waves that we call thunder.Try this experiment!To understand how particles with opposite charges attract each other, let's make a magic ‘magnetic balloon'!You need:A balloonA piece of wool or silkA wallWhat to do:1. Blow up the balloon.2. Rub it briskly with the piece of wool or silk.3. Hold it against the wall and watch it ‘stick' there like a magnet to iron!Why does this happen?When you rub the balloon with the wool or silk, electrons get transferred between the two. The atoms in the balloon take in more electrons, so the balloon becomes negatively charged. When you hold it against the wall, the negative ions in the balloon get attracted to the positive ions in the wall, causing the balloon to stick to the wall!

Look at us.Do you want to be our friend? My legs are very strong.I can run really fast with them. And my arms... such a nice swing! I like to draw.I use my hands for drawing. Should I draw your picture?I can see you with my eyes. The bird sings a sweet song.I can hear it with my ears. I think Ma is making halwa.I can smell it with my nose. Oh! This sugarcane is so tough! But my teeth are strong too! It is very sweet.My tongue just told me. I can sing.Should I sing you a song? Ma says I have a good voice. Does it come from my throat?

My brother is reading aschool book. My mother is reading abible. My sister is reading arecipe book. My uncle is reading anewspaper. Granny is reading amagazine. My little sister isreading a picture book. I am reading this book. Soon I will be able toread everything!

Once upon a time there was ahungry jackal. He was walkingaround the bush looking forfood. He came upon a big orchard offresh ripe grapes. He spotted abunch of grapes hanging from ahigh branch. "Those look really delicious," hethought to himself. He took afew steps back so that he couldmake his highest jump. The grapes were too high.Jackal fell on his back withoutgetting to the grapes. Jackal got up and went furtherback from his starting spot. Thistime he was planning to jumphigher. He almost got highenough but he fell harder on hisback. He tried again and again, butcouldn't get to the grapes. Hekept falling until his back wasvery sore. Finally, he gave up and walkedaway. Jackal was not happy at all. Hestopped, looked back at thegrapes and thought, "Thosegrapes look really sour anyway."He carried on walking. He washungrier than before. Kwasuka sukela kwakukhona u jakalasi owayelambile. Waye hamba ehlathini efunana nokudla. Wase uhlangana nesihlahla esasiphethe imvini ehlaza. Wase uyazibona lezo mvini ezazilengeleya esihlahleni. "zibukeka zimnandi," wakhuluma yedwa. Wase ubuyela emuva kancane, ukuze akwazi ukuzifikelela. Izimvini zazi phezulu. Ujakalasi wase uyawa wawela phezu komhlane wakhe engazitholanga izimvini. Ujakalasi wase uyasukuma ubuyela emuva kunalapha wayeme khna. Kulesi sikathi waye hlose ukugcumela phezulu. Cishe wafika phezulu kepha wase uyawangamandla mashaya phansi. Wazama wazama, kodwa wayengafikeleli kulezo zimvini. Waqhubeka ehluleka, umgogodla wakhe wase ubuhlungu kakhulu. Ekugcineni, wase ulahla ithawela futhi wahamba. U jakalasi wayenga jabulanga neze. Wema, wabuka emuva kulezo mvini waqhabanga, "lezo mvini ezingavuthwanga ezihlaza. "Wakhala wase uyahamba. Futhi waye lambe ukudlula.

Sister, sister, I wonder...What do you wonder, little brother,What do you wonder?I wonder, I wonder, why the sky is so blue.What do you think, little brother,What do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother,what do you think? I thinkThat maybe the skyIs really an upside-down seaWith cloud-boats bobbing gently along.That an E-NOR-MOUS sheetOf clear plastic skinIs stretched across that upside-down seaTo keep it in. And sometimes the plastic tears a littleHere or thereLike plastic willAnd then it rains.I think that is why the sky is blueBecause it is a seaAnd seas are blue.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Oh yes you are, little brother, oh yes you areAnd maybe you are right, too...But in the books I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,what did they say?What do you think, little brother,what do you think?I think, I think,Tell me, little brother, what do you think? I thinkThat maybe the old womanWho lives in the skyWashes her ENORMOUS blue saree each nightAnd spreads it out to dry in the sunEach morning. She is careful, the old womanShe pins the saree down with cloud-stonesSo that the naughty windCannot carry it away.I think that is why the sky is blueBecause the old woman in the skySpreads her saree out to dry.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Of course you are, little brother,And maybe you are right, too...But in the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,what do you think?I think, I think... Tell me, little brother,What do you think? I thinkThat maybe, one long-ago HoliThe shops ran out of every colour BUT blue.And I think, that day,Such an ENORMOUS cloud of blue dust roseFrom laughing blue people everywhere,That it reached up, up, up all the wayTo the sky. And the old woman, the one that lives up there,She scrubs the sky each dayWith cloud-cottonwool,To get the stain out of the way.I think that's why the sky is blueBecause of a stubborn stainThat drives the old woman insane.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Oh yes, you are, little brother, oh yes you areAnd maybe you are right, too...But in the books I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,What do you think?They said, they said...Tell me, sister, what did they say? They saidThat there is a thick blanket of airAround our blue and green earthAnd that blanket is wovenOf millions of little things they callMo-le-cules. They saidThe air blanket is calledAt-mos-phere.But why is the sky so blue, sister,Why is the sky so blue?Be patient, little brother, be patient now. They saidThe golden light from the glorious sunIs not golden at allBut white!And what a white!A rainbow-coloured white! A violet-indigo-blue-green-yellow-orange-red white.They saidIt is the RAINBOW lightThat comes to usThrough the At-mos-phere. But the sky is blue, sister, not violet or yellow or green!Listen, little brother, you'll see what I mean.Now the Mo-le-cules in the At-mos-phereWell, they are not very fair. They let the red and the yellow and the orange light pass throughMostlyAnd the green tooBut the blue!Oh, they give the blue a hard time!What do they do to the blue, sister,What do they do?Tell me, sister, what do they do? Well, when the sunlight strikes thoseMillions and millions of MO-le-culesThey BOUNCE all that blue lightThe blue, blue light'sBack where it came from;And the poor blue lightShatters, scattersAll over, ALL OVER, the skyAnd turns it blue. Can it be true, sister, can it be true?I can't say, little brother, I can't say.But in all the books that I have readThat is what they said.FIND OUT MORE!Why is the sky blue?Sunlight is made up of all the colors of the rainbow: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet. The gas molecules in the atmosphere interact with the sunlight before it reaches our eyes.Each ‘colour' of light is actually a different wavelength of electromagnetic radiation. Different wavelengths not only make up different colours, they also behave differently. Each of the different wavelengths in sunlight (or, in other words, each of the colours that sunlight is made up of) interacts differently with the molecules in the atmosphere.When sunlight strikes the molecules, they scatter the blue light (which has a shorter wavelength) more than they do the red, orange, yellow and green lights (which have longer wavelengths). Since the blue portion is scattered more, the sky appears blue.Try this experiment!Why does the sky appear orange and red at dawn and dusk?Let's try this exercise to find out.You need:A clear glass full of waterA little milkA torchWhat to do:Shine the torch on the glass of water. Can you see the light in the water? Hardly. Now add a few drops of milk into the water. Then shine the torch again on the glass. This time, you will notice that the light is more visible. Add a few more drops of milk. Now you will notice that the light in the glass is distinctly blue.Why does this happen?When you add the first few drops of milk tothe water, the number of molecules in thewater increases. The fat and protein molecules in the milk scatter the light so that we can see it. When you increase the number of molecules by adding more milk, the light is scattered more, especially the blue light, which has a shorter wavelength.

Let me tell you mystory.I start as a small spark. I run wild when thewind carries me. We are good friends,you and I. I cook your food. I light your night. I have many tricks. I am part of your family. But be careful whenyou invite me to yourhome.I don't like to be leftalone.

Sister, sister, I wonder...What do you wonder, little brother,What do you wonder?I wonder, I wonder, why things don't fall up.What do you think, little brother,What do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother, what do you think? I thinkThat long ago, things did fall upThat the sky was full of toffee wrappersAnd ice cream sticksThat stars slipped on banana peelsThat sometimes, the moon cut her dainty feetOn bits of broken glassOr caught her trailing silver skirtsOn a rusty nail. I thinkThe old woman who lives in the skyGot so tired of cleaning the messThat she put a curse on the earth;And things have fallen down ever since.I think that's why things don't fall upBecause the old woman in the skyWas fed up of living in a smelly pigsty.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Oh yes, you are, little brother,And maybe you're right, too...But in the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,What do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother, what do you think? I thinkThat long ago, things did fall upAnd drove Mother mad.Father's keys,The screw of her nose-stud,The coins you were tossing from hand to hand (even though you knew Mother would scold if she knew)On your way back from the market;All fell up and disappeared. Mother prayed to all her Gods.One of them took pity on her,And things fell down and vanished no more.Mother was happy (for a while)Now she complains about the mess on the floor.I think that's why things don't fall upAll thanks to a woman's pleasFor fewer lost coins, and screws, and keys.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? I know you are, little brother,And maybe you're right, too...But in the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say?What do you think, little brother,What do you think?I think, I think...Tell me, little brother, what do you think? I thinkThere is a big greedy demon inside the earthAll day he waits, his mouth a gaping holeSucking in mighty lungfuls of air...And nothing can fall upAs long as he keeps sucking in —Everything heads towards that greedy hole. I thinkMany things go right in.My marbles, your hairclips,The yummy laddoos Mother makesWhich I don't eat and you don't eatBut which disappear somehow.I think that is why things don't fall upBecause they hurtle earthwards to feedAn underground demon's greed.I'm clever, aren't I, sister? Of course you are, little brother,Of course you areAnd maybe you're right, too...But in all the books that I have readThat is not what they said.Then what did they say, sister,What did they say? Come here, little brother,I'll tell you what they said.They said, they said...Tell me what they said, sister,Tell me what they said. They saidThat everything, just everythingIn the great big universePulls everything, just everything elseIn the great big universeTowards itself. They saidThat BIG things can pull much harderAt small thingsThan small things can pullAt BIG things.But why don't things fall up, sister,Why don't things fall up?Be patient, little brother, be patient now. They saidThe earth, our home,Is a very BIG thingAnd all of us,and everything else on earth—Our aeroplanes, our blue whales,even our oceans—Are very small things. And that's whyThe earth pulls us towards itselfMUCH, MUCH harderThan we can pull the earthTowards us.SO HARDThat we, or our keys, or our screws,or our coins,Cannot escape, float away, disappear,Or fall up. This GREAT force, this GIGANTIC forceWith which the earth pulls usAll of us,Even the penguins at the edge of the earth,Towards itselfIs called GRA-VI-TY.Can it be true, sister, can it be true?I can't say, little brother, I can't say.But in all the books that I have readThat is what they said.FIND OUT MORE!Why don't things fall up?About 350 years ago, a famous English scientist called Isaac Newton was relaxing under an apple tree when an apple fell and hit him SMACK! on the head. Rubbing his sore head, Newton wondered why things never fell up. Finally, he came up with the theory that the earth was like a giant magnet, which attracted everything around it with great force. He called this invisible force ‘gravity'.He also concluded that everything in the universe attracts everything else. Bigger objects attract each other with greater force than smaller ones. Also, as the distance between two objects increases, the force of attraction between them decreases.Gravity, however, does not just make apples fall down from trees. It also keeps the moon in orbit around the earth and all the planets in orbit around the sun. The force of the earth's gravity keeps the moon from flying away into space.But why doesn't the moon fall towards the earth? Because the moon has its own gravity, with which it attracts the earth. It is because the earth's gravity is greater, that the moon goes around the earth. If the moon's was greater, the earth would have gone around the moon instead!Try this experiment!You need:A few rubber bandsA small rubber ballA length of stringWhat to do:Put the rubber bands around the ball in such a way that they grip it tightly. Tie the string to one of the rubber bands around the ball. Stand somewhere where there is plenty of room and swing the ball around your head. If you swing it hard enough, the ball will go around your head in a horizontal circle. Now let go of the string. What happens? The ball flies away in a straight line.Why does this happen?Because there is a tension force in the string, which keeps the ball turning around your head. When you let go of the string, the tension force disappears and the ball goes flying.Now imagine the ball is the moon and you are the earth. The earth's gravity is like the tension force in the string! If this tension force did not exist, the moon would fly away into space!

Once upon a time there was a little girl called Ramya. Ramya loved earrings. Everybody who gave her gifts, gave her earrings. She had red earrings, blue earrings, green earrings, and earrings of all the colours in the rainbow.Then, for Ramya's birthday, do you know what her Grandma got her? Grandma got Ramya really pretty diamond earrings that looked like stars! Ramya loved them. "Oh! Grandma, from where did you get such pretty diamond stars?" she asked. It was a starless night, and Grandma pointed to the sky. "See, there are no stars in the sky any longer. I plucked all the stars from the sky and chose the best ones for your earrings," Grandma replied. This made Ramya very sad."Twinkle, twinkle little star,How I wonder where you are?Up above the world so high,Please come back like diamonds in the sky!"Ramya sang unhappily. That night, Ramya took off her earrings and placed them carefully under her pillow. She hoped a fairy would return the stars to the sky.In the middle of the night, Ramya had a beautiful dream. In the dream, a pretty fairy came and told Ramya, “Don't worry Ramya, I have thousands of new stars for the sky!”Ramya woke up, and do you know what she saw? The night sky was filled with stars! Ramya's eyes sparkled as she put on her precious diamond star earrings again! Now, Ramya is so happy!

.......chairs and tables. ..... a lot of story books for childrenand adults. .....painted pictures onthe wall. .....white and blue clouds on theceiling board. Children and adults goto the library. ......My friends and I go to thelibrary in holidays. .........We read this book on dearday. ......My mother borrowed a picturebook from the library. ...... a place for me. .....a place for you. ....a place for all. ........i enjoy the library so muuuuuuuuch!!

Once upon a time Jackal waswalking around the bush. He wasvery hungry. He saw the crow flyingabove the trees. Crow had a hugepiece of cheese in his mouth. "Hmmm...that cheese looksdelicious! I must find a way to getit," thought the jackal."Oh, I have a plan!" said Jackal tohimself while wiping his mouthquickly. He did not want Crow tonotice that he was hungry. Crow had been flying the wholemorning. He was tired. He decidedto sit on a branch of a tree. Thejackal sat down under the treewhere Crow was sitting. Jackal called with a huge smile,"Hello Crow! You're looking verygood today. Your feathers lookglossy and healthy. You must betaking very good care of yourself." Crow was very flattered to hear this.Crow always thought he was thestrongest and most beautiful of allthe other birds. "I hear you also have the mostbeautiful singing voice of all theother birds. Won't you sing a songfor me this morning?" Crow was so flattered that hestretched his wings and prepared tosing for the jackal. He pushed hischest out and let out a loud pitchedsound. As Crow started singing the cheesefell to the ground, right in front ofJackal. Crow stopped and lookeddown. Jackal grabbed the piece ofcheese and ate it. He ran into thebush and crow was left angry andhungry.

Do you get the feeling sometimes that none of your clothes are just right? I do! The shirt buttons trouble me.The pants feel too tight on me. The lehenga seems to trip me.The choli does not fit me. My salwar keeps slipping.The golden zari keeps itching. The churidaar pulls and tugs everywhere.Nothing perfect seems to be there. This frock is too bright.Brother's T-shirt? What a funny sight! Papa's kurta is rather long.Mummy's sari is wrapped all wrong.Some things are well out of my reach. Oh, it really makes me want to screech! These clothes seem to say, ‘We shall trouble you all day.'But I have made up my mind today... ... to mix and match these clothes in a way that I have my very own style today!

For the very first time, Maaloo is collecting vegetables from the garden. He has collected red tomatoes, fresh brinjals and green lady's fingers. Dadi says, “Well done, Maaloo! Go and get some potatoes too.” Maaloo looked at all the trees, creepers and plants. Not a single potato could he see. “Dadi, the potatoes aren't ready yet,” said Maaloo, putting the empty basket down.“No Maaloo, there are plenty of potatoes. Look carefully,” said Dadi. Maaloo went into the garden once more. Kaaloo followed him.Maaloo was looking for potatoes when he heard, “Woof! Woof!” “Kaaloo! Stop, Kaaloo!” yelled Maaloo, running behind him. “Don't spoil the garden.” Maaloo saw that Kaaloo was digging away and what do you think was coming out of the mud?Big fat potatoes! “Well done, Kaaloo. You found the potatoes!” laughed Maaloo, filling his basket with potatoes.

In Nakwiga Forest, there livedMonkey who was always lonely butfriendly.she had miscarriages most timesbaby. The pain of having miscarriagesmade Monkey jump up and down allthe time.She would jump from one tree toanother saying "Kau! Kau! Kau!" Monkey was always lonely.She could feel bad when saw othermonkeys playing with their babieson their backs. The lonely Monkey would sway thisway and that way.She would sway on this branch andon that branch!She would sway on this tree and theother tree!Days passed and Monkey criedmore and more. Then she conceived again and gavebirth.She decided to take the baby to thepath so that people passing bygoing to the river would see thebaby and wish it well. Monkey climbed down from thebranch and put the baby on thepath and climbed up and sat inbetween the branches to watchwhoever passed by .At that time, a hunter and his dogwere returning home.He saw the baby monkey lying onthe side of the path . The hunter carried the babymonkey to his home.When the hunter reached home, histhree boys were excited to meet anew friend, started playing with themonkey baby jumping up and downand fed it. The three boys sang:"Baby monkeyyou will not fall downwe love you baby monkey x2The monkey was thrown up and theboys couldn't allow it to fall down atall. As the three boys played with thebaby monkey, mother Monkey waswatching them.She was scared that her baby wouldfall down and break as the boyswere throwing it up . The kind woman came and sawyoung boys playing with the babymonkey.She said politely to them, "Becareful! Bring it here. You will breakit!" She took the baby monkey in herarms, and blessed it in Jesus' name. When the woman put the babymonkey down, mother Monkeycame running with a lot of joy.She held her baby to her chest andshe disappeared up the tree.

Bunty loves to play with butterflies... ...and with birds. She loves to play with paper boats. She also likes to make sand castles. When Bunty goes back home,her mother asks her to clean up.But she refuses. "I hate soaps!" she screams. One night, she has a dream.The germs are all around her castle, and are attacking her. Bunty is chased by the germs.She runs for her life and screams, “Help... Help!” Suddenly, Soap King Bubbly appears.“Bunty, don't be afraid,” he says. “Go attack the germs!”the Soap King orders his army of bubbles. The army of bubbles chases the germs away. These days, Bunty likes to use soap,and she brushes and scrubs herself clean.

Samba's dad bought him a newschool shirt last market day. Now Samba never missesschool and it has become hisbest friend. Samba likes playing football inhis new shirt. He makes it dirty every day anddoes not want to wash it. In the field, he wants everyoneto see his new shirt. In the morning he goes toschool with the dirty shirt andfinds the teacher at the gate. Samba dodges school that dayand goes across the road toplay football. Unfortunately the new shirtgets torn.And Samba is punished fordodging school and tearing thenew school shirt.

This is my home. I live here with my whole family. We take off our shoes and chappals here. This is where we wash our face and hands. I hang my clothes on the hook. My grandfather keeps his stick in the corner. We also keep our mats there. My father keeps his motorcycle outside. But his helmet is on the cupboard. My mother and grandmother keep their saris in the trunk. Tasty food is cooked in the kitchen. When it is cold, we bring out quilts. When it is hot, we use a fan. When we have important guests, we bring out the chairs. You must come and visit my home. Come soon.

Rabbit was sleeping under anapple tree.An apple fell down from abranch. A voice said, "Run rabbit run!"She woke up quickly and ranaway with great speed. She met a chicken. "Why areyou running?" asked thechicken.Rabbit replied, "I don't know. Ijust heard something falling anda voice said, 'Run rabbit run!'" The chicken was frightened.She started running when sheheard what the rabbit said. They met a dog. Dog asked,"Why are you running?"Chicken said, "I don't know. Ijust heard what the rabbit said,and she doesn't know. Sheheard something falling and avoice said, 'Run rabbit run!'" The dog was surprised aboutwhat she heard. She startedrunning with Rabbit andChicken. They met a horse. The horseasked the dog, "Why are yourunning?"Dog said, "I don't know. I justheard what the chicken said,and she doesn't know. Sheheard what the rabbit said andshe doesn't know. She heardsomething falling and a voicesaid, 'Run rabbit run!'" The horse starts to run with theothers. They met a donkey. The donkeyasked, "Why are you running?"Horse replied, "I don't know. Ijust heard what the dog said,and he doesn't know. He heardwhat the chicken said and shedoesn't know. She heard whatthe rabbit said and she doesn'tknow. She heard somethingfalling and a voice said, 'Runrabbit run!'" So Donkey starts running too. They met a cow. The cow asked,"Why are you running?"Donkey replied, "I don't know. Ijust heard what the horse said,and she doesn't know. Sheheard what the dog said and hedoesn't know. He heard whatthe chicken said and shedoesn't know. She heard whatthe rabbit said and she doesn'tknow. She heard somethingfalling and a voice said, 'Runrabbit run!'" The cow is worried and starts torun as well. They met a cat. The cat asked,"Why are you running?"Cow replied, "I don't know. I justheard what the donkey said,and he doesn't know. He heardwhat the horse said and shedoesn't know. She heard whatthe dog said and he doesn'tknow. He heard what thechicken said and she doesn'tknow. She heard what therabbit said and she doesn'tknow. She heard somethingfalling and a voice said, 'Runrabbit run!'" The cat started running with theother animals. Then they met the boy ridingthe bicycle and he asked, "Whyare you running?''And the animals replied, "Wedon't know. We heard what therabbit said and she doesn'tknow. She heard somethingfalling and a voice said, 'Runrabbit run!'" The boy laughed and said, "Anapple feel off the tree becauseof the wind. I'm the one whosaid, 'Run rabbit run!'"

In a gulmohar tree along the wheat fields in Punjab, Munni the sparrow, sat by her nest. She watched over her three little eggs, waiting for them to hatch.Munni looked around happily at the bright red flowers, before giving a startled chirp as she saw a flash of black. It was the village bully, Kaka, the crow. "Move over Munni, for I have come to eat your eggs," he cawed. Now Munni was a clever little sparrow and she quickly chirped back, "Who can refuse you, Kaka? But I have one request. Before eating my eggs, could you please wash your beak, since it is looking very dirty?" Kaka did not like the idea of not looking his very best. He quickly flew over to the stream and was about to wash his beak in the water, when the stream cried out, “Kaka! Wait! If you dip your beak into me, all my water will become dirty. Go get a cup, fill it with water, and wash your beak in that.” Hearing this, Kaka went to the potter in the village, and cawed to him,“Oh potter dear,This is Kaka here.A cup you makeFor me to fillWith water to washMy dirty billSo I can eat the eggsAnd loudly cawTo let everyoneHear me and knowThat I am the most handsome crow.”“I will gladly give you a cup, but I need mud to make one for you,” said the potter. So Kaka flew over to the nearby field and said to it,“Oh field dear,This is Kaka here.Some mud I'll takeFor the potter to makeA cup to fillWith water to washMy dirty billSo I can eat the eggsAnd loudly cawTo let everyoneHear me and knowThat I am the most handsome crow.”“I am all dry and baked hard, for the monsoon rains are yet to start. Get something sharp to dig me up,” replied the field. Off Kaka went to the nearby jungle where he saw a deer with sharp horns. He called out to it,“My friend, oh deer,This is Kaka here.Your horn may I takeTo dig some mudFor the potter to makeA cup for me to fillWith water to washMy dirty billSo I can eat the eggsAnd loudly cawTo let everyoneHear me and knowThat I am the most handsome crow?”“Oh, you very clever crow, how can you take my horn while I am still alive?” Kaka, terribly hungry, flew around in a flurry till he came across... ...a pair of dogs.“Oh dogs dear,This is Kaka here.I need your help, I fear,To kill the deerWhose horn I shall takeTo dig some mudFor the potter to makeA cup for me to fillWith water to washMy dirty billSo I can eat the eggsAnd loudly cawTo let everyoneHear me and knowThat I am the most handsome crow.”“That is a lot of work in this heat,” grumbled one of the dogs. “We need to be strong to kill the deer. Go get some milk for us to drink.” Back to the village flew Kaka and went to the buffalo munching on some straw.“Oh buffalo dear,This is Kaka here.Could I take your milkTo the dogs to feedWhose help I needTo kill the deerWhose horn I shall takeTo dig some mudFor the potter to makeA cup for me to fillWith water to washMy dirty billSo I can eat the eggsAnd loudly cawTo let everyoneHear me and knowThat I am the most handsome crow?”“If I could get some lovely juicy grass to eat instead of this dry hay, I would certainly give you milk,” mooed back the buffalo. On hearing this, Kaka swooped over to the only grassy field around and said to it,“Oh grass dear,This is Kaka here.Please come with meFor the buffalo is hungryAnd I need her milkFor the dogs to feedWhose help I needTo kill the deerWhose horn I shall takeTo dig some mudFor the potter to makeA cup for me to fillWith water to washMy dirty billSo I can eat the eggsAnd loudly cawTo let everyoneHear me and knowThat I am the most handsome crow.” “And how do you plan to cut me?” whispered the grass. “Go get a sickle from the blacksmith and then I can come with you.” Kaka, really hungry now, went to the blacksmith and said to him,“Oh blacksmith dear,This is Kaka here.Give me a sickleTo give the grass a tickle.I will take her with meFor the buffalo is hungryAnd I need her milkFor the dogs to feedWhose help I needTo kill the deerWhose horn I shall takeTo dig some mudFor the potter to makeA cup for me to fillWith water to washMy dirty billSo I can eat the eggsAnd loudly cawTo let everyoneHear me and knowThat I am the most handsome crow.” The blacksmith, like all the others, wanted to save Munni's eggs. Looking up, he said, “Kaka, please go around the back, open the furnace door and put this piece of iron in it.” Kaka was very excited and in his hurry, he quickly flung open the furnace door. As he did this, a sudden gust of wind made him fall backwards on the coal, burning his tail.“Oh ho! Mera poonja sadhiya!”“Oh ho! Mera poonja sadhiya!”Which, in Punjabi, meant, “Oh! My tail has got burnt!” Since Kaka always wanted to look his best, he could not bear to be seen with a burnt tail.So he flew off never to be seen again. What is a Collage?Each of the pictures that you have seen in this book is a collage (pronounced ko–laaj). Collage is a way of making a whole new picture by putting bits of material together. The material could be handmade and printed paper, like in this book. It could be clippings from newspapers and magazines, old greeting cards, photographs, fabric, ribbons, dried flowers and leaves, or anything else that you find lying around!The word “collage” comes from the French word “colle” meaning “glue”. To make a collage, you need bits of different material, a scissor or a pair of nimble fingers to tear up stuff and lots of glue to stick things together. This page shows the four elements, Wind, Water, Earth and a fiery Sun, and uses bits from paper you can spot in the book. Now go ahead and make your own collage!

It has many colours. They appear together. You see orange. You see blue. You see red. The colours are so beautiful.

Sringeri Srinivas was having a very bad day.Nobody wanted the sweet, ripe bananas he was growing on his farm. Not his family.Not his neighbour.Not his friends. Not the traders who could sell the bananas in far away markets. And not even his cows! “No, thank you,” they all said. “The bananas are very sweet but we have had too many. We cannot eat any more!” Poor Sringeri Srinivas!What was he to do now with his rich harvest of bananas? He decided to seek help from the Farmer's Centre in Doddooru, a big town near his village. Off he went carrying the best crop of bananas.Surely someone there would have a good idea for him. A few days later, Sringeri Srinivas returned home looking very happy. He went back to growing bananas on his farm. But he did not offer the fruits to anyone anymore. Not to his family.Not to his neighbour.Not to his friends. Not to the traders who could sell the bananas in far away markets. And not even to his cows! Everyone became very curious.Where were all the bananas going? One day, neighbour Shivanna arranged a very big pooja. The priest asked him to get 108 ripe bananas as an offering to the gods. Shivanna ran to Sringeri Srinivas. “I'm sorry for saying no to you before, but now I need 108 ripe bananas.Can you help me, please?” Sringeri Srinivas tapped his chin. “Well, my crop has just been cut but let me see what I can do. You may start your pooja. I will surely come.” The pooja started.The whole village came to watch.The priest began chanting. Soon it became time to offer bananas to the gods. Just then, in came Sringeri Srinivas carrying a big bag. From the bag, he carefully took out 27 packets and laid them out before the holy fire. Each packet was carefully wrapped in banana leaf. On each one was written - “High Quality Banana Halwa, S. S. Farms.” Sringeri Srinivas offered one to the priest. “Each one has the pulp of 4 bananas. There are 27 packets. So here are your 108 ripe bananas!” The priest was so surprised that he forgot to chant. In the silence, one child began to laugh. Soon the whole village was laughing and clapping. Now we know what Sringeri Srinivas does with all the bananas that he grows! DID YOU KNOW?Facts About BananasThe word banana is derived from the Arabic word for ‘finger'. India is the largest producer of bananas in the world. There are over 120 edible varieties of bananas grown here. The National Research Centre on Bananas in Trichy has a collection of 1120 banana varieties!Bananas are high in minerals that help increase brain power. Bananas make students more active and alert. Many Indian sweets are made out of bananas - Banana Payasam in Kerala, Banana Rasayana in Karnataka, Banana Halwa, Rawa Kela-Gur Mithai. Do you know some more?

A crocodile has sharpteeth. A lion has sharp teethas well. A shark has very sharpteeth!Why do some animalshave sharp teeth? A cow has strong teethfor grinding. A bird does not haveteeth.How does a bird eat? Rats have big frontteeth. I used to have frontteeth. My front teeth fell out!How many teeth do youhave? Ingwenya inamazinyoabukhali Ibhubesi nalolinamazinyo abukhali ushaka unamazinyoabukhali!kungani ezinye izilwanezinamazinyo abukhali? inkomo inamazinyoaqinile okuhlafuna inyoni ayinawoamazinyo .idla kanjani? amagundaneanamazinyo amabiliamakhulu ngaphambili. benginamazinyongaphambili izinyo lamilangaphambili liphumileunamaziyo awungakhi?

When Loco, the lovely new train was rolled into the railway shed, all the older trains admired its fine face and figure. “Oh, you will soon go to all kinds of strange and new places. What wonderful adventures you will have!” they promised. But Loco did not want any adventures — it was, you see, a frightened little train — not little at all, of course, but it was so scared of everything that it felt tiny! It didn't want to leave the railway shed. It shrank when the cows in the fields bellowed, but felt comforted by the friendly, older trains around.It was scared even when a dog ran barking towards it, and wished it could hide somewhere safer! But how was it to hide anywhere, and how could it always stay in the shed? A wise old train who had been all over the country saw how frightened Loco looked, and pointed out that it was much bigger than dogs and cows.But Loco was not sure. “Oh, but they are all so strong and fierce. I don't want to go anywhere alone,” it said. So the old train said, “But you won't be alone, dear Loco. The engine driver and the guard will be with you.” Loco knew the guard. He was a pleasant fellow who waved the flag when trains had to leave. Loco saw that he was quite small. It didn't think the guard could protect it from anything. Loco also knew the engine driver Babu and it trusted his kind face. Soon the big day arrived when Loco was rolled out of the yard for its maiden journey. Loco was to go all the way across from Tamil Nadu near the sea to Jammu next to the mountains.Babu, the engine driver pushed some buttons, and twisted some knobs, and off chugged Loco from the station, its heart in its mouth. “Oooo,” it cried in fright but what do you suppose happened? It came out sounding exactly like a sharp train whistle! Some mynahs pecking nearby quickly flew off cackling. And as it thundered on, off flew all the crows and sparrows and other birds perched on wires along the railway track in great fright. Loco was really surprised that anybody could be frightened of it, and laughed. At once, the ground shuddered, and dogs nearby took to their heels!Soon Loco was far from its home. Seeing a big bull sitting on the track, Loco was so scared that it let out a piercing shriek, “Oooo!” And the bull lifted its tail and sprang away, its legs flaying about wildly as it ran for dear life. Loco could hardly believe that such a big, powerful creature could be afraid of it, a mere train! It felt much braver and decided that now it wouldn't even fear lions and tigers.But guess where Loco had to go next? Deep inside a dark cave in the mountains. Babu, the driver didn't even flinch as he merrily punched some buttons to switch on the engine lights, but Loco was horrified. “Noooo, I don't want to go in there,” it wailed, but it just came out as a great long whistle. Through the deep cavern hurtled dear Loco, its great beams lighting the pitch black tunnel. When it emerged on the other side, it let out a big sigh of relief “Oooo!” It came out as another long whistle of course, but then, it was never afraid of anything anymore. Now Loco chugs merrily across fields and over bridges, over mountains and through forests, whistling when it feels happy, and to tell everyone else to move out of its way. Have you taken a trip on Loco?

My name is Kobole.I live in a small village. I was out picking fruits when I saw something I had never seen before. There were colourful lines in the sky. I dropped all the fruit and ran to tell people at home. People were standing outside surprised. I said happily, "It is a beautiful sheet hanging from the sky." "No! I think someone is pouring paint from the sky." Neno said. Some people agreed with me. Others thought Neno was right.We began to argue. A man from a faraway village said, "You are all wrong." We shouted, "Tell us what it is if we are wrong." The stranger said, "It is the rainbow.Have you never seen the rainbow before?" We asked the stranger, "What is a r-a-i-n-b-o-w?" Neno asked, "Is it ours? Can we keep it here?"We never got answers to our questions because the man had left.

It was holiday time. Veena and Vinay were in the garden. There were tins of paint everywhere. There was white paint and red paint and green paint and blue paint and yellow paint. The painters were busy. One painter was on a ladder. Another was hanging from the roof on a swing. “Can we help?” asked Veena and Vinay. The painter gave each of them a brush. “Paint the inside of the gate,” he said to Veena.“Paint the outside of the gate,” he said to Vinay. They picked up two tins of paint and set to work. Veena painted one side of the gate. Vinay painted the other side of the gate. The paint fell on the ground.The paint fell on the wall.The paint fell on them. At last they finished. They wiped off the paint that had splashed on the ground. They wiped off the paint that had splashed on the wall. They wiped off the paint that had splashed on them. "I love my red gate!" said Veena. "I love my green gate!" said Vinay. “Oh, you have made a two-coloured gate!” cried the painter.“Let us keep it that way!” said Mother.

When Simbegwire's mother died,she was very sad. Simbegwire'sfather did his best to take care ofhis daughter. Slowly, they learnedto feel happy again, withoutSimbegwire's mother.Every morning they sat and talkedabout the day ahead. Every eveningthey made dinner together. Afterthey washed the dishes,Simbegwire's father helped her withhomework. One day, Simbegwire's father camehome later than usual. "Where areyou my child?" he called.Simbegwire ran to her father. Shestopped still when she saw that hewas holding a woman's hand. "Iwant you to meet someone special,my child. This is Anita," he saidsmiling. "Hello Simbegwire, your father toldme a lot about you," said Anita. Butshe did not smile or take the girl'shand.Simbegwire's father was happy andexcited. He talked about the threeof them living together, and howgood their life would be. "My child, Ihope you will accept Anita as yourmother," he said. Simbegwire's life changed. She nolonger had time to sit with herfather in the mornings. Anita gaveher so many household chores thatshe was too tired to do her schoolwork in the evenings. She wentstraight to bed after dinner.Her only comfort was the colourfulblanket her mother gave her.Simbegwire's father did not seem tonotice that his daughter wasunhappy. After a few months, Simbegwire'sfather told them that he would beaway from home for a while. "I haveto travel for my job," he said. "But Iknow you will look after each other."Simbegwire's face fell, but herfather did not notice. Anita did notsay anything. She was not happyeither. Things got worse for Simbegwire. Ifshe didn't finish her chores, or shecomplained, Anita hit her. And atdinner, the woman ate most of thefood, leaving Simbegwire with onlya few scraps.Each night Simbegwire cried herselfto sleep, hugging her mother'sblanket. One morning, Simbegwire was lategetting out of bed. "You lazy girl!"Anita shouted. She pulledSimbegwire out of bed. Theprecious blanket caught on a nail,and tore in two. Simbegwire was very upset. Shedecided to run away from home.She took the pieces of her mother'sblanket, packed some food, and leftthe house. She followed the roadher father had taken. When it came to evening, sheclimbed a tall tree near a streamand made a bed for herself in thebranches.As she went to sleep, she sang:"Maama, maama, maama, you leftme.You left me and never came back.Father doesn't love me anymore.Mother, when are you coming back?You left me." The next morning, Simbegwire sangthe song again. When the womencame to wash their clothes at thestream, they heard the sad songcoming from the tall tree.They thought it was only the windrustling the leaves, and carried onwith their work. But one of thewomen listened very carefully tothe song. This woman looked up into the tree.When she saw the girl and thepieces of colourful blanket, shecried, "Simbegwire, my brother'schild!"The other women stopped washingand helped Simbegwire to climbdown from the tree. Her aunthugged the little girl and tried tocomfort her. Simbegwire's aunt took the child toher own house. She gaveSimbegwire warm food, and tuckedher in bed with her mother'sblanket.That night, Simbegwire cried as shewent to sleep. But they were tearsof relief. She knew her aunt wouldlook after her. When Simbegwire's father returnedhome, he found her room empty."What happened, Anita?" he askedwith a heavy heart. The womanexplained that Simbegwire had runaway. "I wanted her to respect me,"she said. "But perhaps I was toostrict."Simbegwire's father left the houseand went in the direction of thestream. He continued to his sister'svillage to find out if she had seenSimbegwire. Simbegwire was playing with hercousins when she saw her fatherfrom far away. She was scared hemight be angry, so she ran insidethe house to hide.But her father went to her and said,"Simbegwire, you have found aperfect mother for yourself. Onewho loves you and understandsyou. I am proud of you and I loveyou."They agreed that Simbegwire wouldstay with her aunt as long as shewanted to. Her father visited her every day.Eventually, he came with Anita. Shereached out for Simbegwire's hand."I'm so sorry little one, I waswrong," she cried. "Will you let metry again?"Simbegwire looked at her fatherand his worried face. Then shestepped forward slowly and put herarms around Anita. The next week, Anita invitedSimbegwire, with her cousins andaunt, to the house for a meal. Whata feast! Anita prepared all ofSimbegwire's favourite foods, andeveryone ate until they were full.Then the children played while theadults talked.Simbegwire felt happy and brave.She decided that soon, very soon,she would return home to live withher father and her stepmother.

All of us went to the Dasara fair. Papa bought Chintu fancy glasses. Mother bought me a bright blue cap. The baby got sugar candy. On the way home, a very strong wind came.It blew my cap away. My cap got stuck on a branch of the old Pipal tree. I cried a lot. And I did not eat my dinner. Later that night, the moon came up.It looked at my cap on the old Pipal tree. It tried on my cap. The moon smiled happily. I had to smile too. After school the next day, my mother gave me a shiny new red cap. “The moon sent it,” she said. That night, both the moon and I wore our caps and smiled.We were happy. Do you think the sun needs a hat? Guess which cap I am wearing today!

This is my picture. I am six years old. This is a picture of myfamily. My favourite food isfried fish and chips. I can draw my hand. I like skipping rope. My telephone number is(033) 342-6587.

Good Morning!Time to wake up. I DON'T want to wake up!I DON'T want to do the big job! I DON'T want to brush my teeth!I DON'T want to have a bath!I DON'T want to have idlis for breakfast! I DON'T want to go to school! Hmm...But, today's your class picnic at the zoo! I DO like idlis with sugar!I DO want to go to school!I DO like singing while I take a bath!I DO want to use my new tooth brush! Oops! This is urgent!I DO want to go for the big job!Here I come, like a rocket... DO please give way,DON'T stand in my way!

Once upon a time,Tortoise and Squirrel were very close friends.One day, Squirrel said to Tortoise, "My friend, we have no money, but market day is getting close.What business can we do to make some money?" Tortoise responded, "You know I can make clay plates. I want you to join me in making plates to sell." "Okay my friend, tomorrow evening I will join you to make the plates," Squirrel said. On the day of the market,Tortoise went to the marketplace.He saw two people fighting in the distance. He put down his clay plates and went to watch the fight. When Tortoise got there, he saw that it was his friend Squirrel fighting with Mole. Immediately, without finding out what caused the fight,Tortoise took a big stick and began to beat Mole. "Leave my friend alone!" shouted Tortoise. Mole turned to faceTortoise and bit him deeply on the nose. Tortoise's nose began to bleed. Tortoise had impatiently entered into the fight.Since that day, Tortoise has a crooked nose to remind him not to be so hasty.

Once upon a time there was afamily who lived in a village. Theparents in this family woke up earlyevery morning to work in the fields.They left the baby with their elderson, Sipho who was ten years old,and their eldest daughter Bulelwa,who was twelve years old. The older children loved playingoutside during the day and theyforgot about doing their householdchores. They called their friends tocome and play with them. The boysloved playing soccer. The girls lovedplaying with dolls around the yard.They forgot about looking after thebaby when their friends arrived. Thebaby cried and cried and nobodyheard. One day the children put the babyunder a tree in the shade on abright red blanket. They went toplay. The baby began crying asusual. A group of cranes flew abovethe playground and felt sorry for thecrying baby. They tried to get thechildren to notice that the baby wascrying but the children kept onplaying. The cranes decided to takethe baby and raise it themselves. Four cranes came to pick up thebaby from under the tree. Eachcrane took a corner of the baby'sblanket, lifted the baby up and flewaway. The children did not noticeanything because they were busyplaying. The children's parents wereworking hard in the hot sun. It was so hot that the motherdecided to rest under a tree. Whileshe was resting she heard her babycrying. She looked around and shecould not see anything. Then shelooked up and she saw four cranesflying away with her baby in thebright red blanket. She screamedand chased after the cranes. Whenthe woman told her husband whatshe saw he did not believe her. The cranes hid the baby betweenthe reeds to protect it. They wantedto find a new family that would carefor the baby. They fed it and put itto sleep. Then they flew away tolook for more food. The baby sleptfor a long time without crying.When the baby woke up it startedcrying because it was hungry. A big frog heard the baby's cry. Itcame closer and saw the babywrapped in the blanket. The frogthought the cranes had stolen thebaby, and decided to hide the babyfrom the cranes. Suddenly the frogheard the voices of the cranes.There was no time to hide. The frogswallowed the baby and hid behinda big rock. When the cranes arrivedthey could not find the baby andthey flew off to look for it. The froghopped back to the baby's familyhome. The baby's family was sitting in theevening feeling very sad. Suddenly,a big frog jumped through the door.The frog told them about how itswallowed their baby. They beggedthe frog to give them the baby."Give me three flies to eat then Iwill give you the baby," said thefrog." The father caught three fliesand fed them to the frog. The frogcoughed and the baby popped out.The family and the frog jumped anddanced with joy.

I like straight hair. I like curly hair. I like curly tails. I like straight tails. I like staircases which curl upwards. I like straight staircases.I like the straight road up the hill. I like the road that curls around the hill. I like to draw straight lines... I always draw curly lines... Want some Chakli? I love Chakli! Straight or Curly? Straight or Curly, who cares! We love Chaklis both ways!

In my village livesMister Kiio.Mister Kiio has a catwith black and whitespots called Safi. When Mister Kiio goesto work, he leaves thedoor open. Safi sits in the doorwayto watch over MisterKiio's house. When the neighbour'sdog comes close, Safistares at him andshows her nails. The dog runs away. When a neighbourappears, Safi is ready toscratch. The neighbour turnsand runs away. When Safi feels hungry,she pushes the doorand then closes it withher paws. She goes inside andeats her food. When Safi finishes, shejumps onto the sofa andsleeps. All you hear is,"Purr! Purr! Purr!" When Mister Kiioarrives, Safi stretcheshappily and welcomeshim home. Mister Kiio and Safi sitdown next to thefireplace and eachreads the newspaper.

It was a bright moonlit night. All the animals in Mangu's farm were sleeping.Except Tinku! “I am not sleepy, Ma,” murmured Tinku. But Ma did not hear him. She was fast asleep.He turned left, and he turned right. He lay on his tummy, and rolled on his back. But he could not sleep! So he set off into the night to see what he could find. Up in the sky, Tinku saw the moon, white and round, smiling down at him. He felt very happy.‘Night is beautiful,' thought Tinku. Far away on the top of a tree, there were some tiny lights. One spot of light flew down! “I'm a firefly,” said the spot of light. “I glow in the dark!”“Will you be my friend?” asked Tinku.“Yes, I will!” said the firefly. Something flew by and hung upside down on a tree.“What is your name, bird?” asked Tinku.“I am not a bird, I am a bat. I can see during the night!” said the bat.“Will you be my friend?” asked Tinku.“Yes, I will!” said the bat. A few leaves moved in the bushes. Someone was hiding! “Who are you?” asked Tinku.“I am a fox,” said the fox. “I go strolling out at night.”“Will you be my friend?” asked Tinku.“Yes, I will!” said the fox. Two shiny eyes looked at him from a tree. “Who are you?” asked Tinku.“I'm an owl,” said the owl. “I hunt for food during the night.”“Will you be my friend?” asked Tinku.“Yes, I will!” said the owl. “CHIRRRRRP! CHIRRRRRP!”“Who is here?” Tinku asked.“I'm a cricket,” said the cricket. “I chirp when it is dark.”“Will you be my friend?” asked Tinku.“Yes, I will!” said the cricket. Tinku and his friends jumped and tossed and rolled until Tinku yawned. “I am sleepy. I have to go home now,” said Tinku. He was happy that he had many new friends.Snuggling close to Ma, he said, “Night is not a lonely place, Ma. Night is full of wonderful beings.”“Yes!” replied Ma. “Your new friends are nocturnal, just like wild dogs.” “Nocturnal animals eat, play and work at night. They rest during the day. You must sleep now. Sleep will give you energy to play with your day-time friends tomorrow. Good night, little one!” she said, hugging him tight. The bright round moon shone all night long, spreading her calm light all around.And Tinku slept all through the night!

Grandpa was writing a letter. Ritu stood beside him, leaning on the arm of the old chair.“Grandpa, have you asked Aunty to send Mani to our home for the holidays?” “Of course, dear Ritu, I have written to your Aunty. Look here, let me read out the letter - Dear Pooja, Hope you are fine. Mani must be having holidays now. Ritu is very eager to see him. Do send him here to Tumkur.” Ritu jumped up and down. And since she could not stop herself, she ran around the room once and hugged Grandpa.“Would you like to post this letter yourself?” asked Grandpa.Ritu's eyes opened wide. “All by myself? Oh, may I?” “Yes, little Ritu. See, I have written the address. Take it to the Post Office. Give the postcard to Ramesh Uncle. You do know that big uncle with the big, handle-bar moustaches, don't you?”“Yes Grandpa. He is the uncle who taught Mani how to ride the cycle last summer. Will he take the letter to Aunty Pooja?” asked Ritu.“No, dear. But the letter will reach your aunty, don't worry.” Ritu picked up her little pink bag. She put the postcard inside. She put a pencil inside too. She felt very important.Ritu felt very grown-up. And just a wee bit scared: what if Bageera the dog chased her?But Ritu was very eager to post the letter. So she left for the post office that was just four buildings away! After taking a few steps,Ritu stopped and took out the letter. She could not read Grandpa's handwriting very well. She tried to remember what Grandpa had read.Then, after the word that she thought was ‘Tumkur' Ritu wrote, ‘PLEECE.' Happy with her work, Ritu walked on. After she had reached the next building, Ritu stopped and took out the postcard once again. What if Pooja Aunty did not realise how eager Ritu was to see Mani? So Ritu took out her pencil again and wrote, ‘PLEEEESE.' Finally, Ritu reached the small post office. There was a red post box outside the post office. Ritu could not reach the mouth of the post box even if she stood on her toes. She walked boldly up to Uncle Ramesh. He took the postcard from her and smiled. “Smart girl! Now run back to your house carefully. I shall make sure your letter reaches your aunty.”But Ritu did not run out. She saw Uncle Ramesh pick up a pen and scribble something on the card. Then he gave it to the postman who was stamping many letters with the postmark. Dhhum, dhhum, DHHUM, he pounded on the letters. When he saw Ritu's letter, he stopped. Then he smiled. He picked out a pencil from behind his ear and wrote something on the card. Five days passed. The postman brought a letter to Grandpa. Grandpa read it with a smile. “Ritu, your aunty says she will send Mani here day-after. Let me read out the letter.Dear Father...tara...ra...ra...da...ta...da...da...dada...I am sending Mani tomorrow. He will reach Tumkur on Friday. I think Ritu must be very eager to see him. Your letter was very interesting...” “Grandpa, I wrote ‘PLEECE' on the letter, that's why!” said Ritu in excitement.“.... Your postcard had twenty ‘Please's written all over it!” Ritu did not know how one ‘please' had become twenty.She was just happy she had added one ‘PLEECE' And another ‘PLEEEESE!' Pleese PleecePLEASE PLIS pleejpleece Pleasepleej PLIS pleecePLEASE Pleeese PLEASE

Sane at home. It is Sane's birthday. Sane at the bus stop. Sane in the bus. Sane at the market. Ooh! Many fruits. Sweet apples. But where is mothermother? I went to buy a birthdaypresent for you. Thank you mum!

Basava and his sister Sundari sat on the sand watching the sun rise over the sea. Slowly, the sky turned from grey to blue and the edges of the clouds became an orange colour. They sat staring at the horizon – that line in the distance where the bowl of the sky seemed to curve down to meet the sea.Their father was a sailor who had sailed away on a merchant ship many months ago. The children were eagerly waiting for him to come back home. So, every morning at sunrise, they came and waited by the beach hoping to see the tall red sails of their father's ship rise slowly above the horizon. The children had seen many ships come and go because they lived in Mamallapuram, which was a busy port. The ships came from many distant lands carrying exciting cargo – chests of silk and pottery, jars full of wine, perfumes and even horses. Their father's ship had sailed out carrying logs of cedar and sandalwood, and bags of spices, rice and ghee.“It's been so many months,” Sundari said sadly, “Appa has never been away for so long.”“Remember that big storm last week?” Basava added worriedly, “The sea was full of high waves. I hope Appa's ship is safe.” “Look, a ship is coming!” said Sundari excitedly, “But I can't see the sails.” As they watched eagerly, a ship appeared on the horizon. It was a small dot that slowly grew larger as it came closer. First, they saw the sails filling out with the wind. Then the high masts and the wooden bow rose into view.“No,” said Basava, disappointed, “Appa's ship has red sails with a flying eagle painted on them. This one has black and green sails.”They felt disappointed and decided to go home. They had work to do — they had to help their mother at her vegetable stall in the market. Their father was often away from home and after a while all the money he left behind would get over. That is why their mother sold vegetables, so that they had enough to eat.Sundari enjoyed working at the vegetable stall. The market was such an interesting place! Often their customers were sailors from different lands – some with pale skins and narrow tilted eyes and some with dark skins and curly hair. They wore odd clothes and jewellery and spoke in languages Sundari could not understand at all! This morning, as Basava was laying out bundles of spinach and cabbage, one of their regular customers came to buy vegetables. She was the wife of a trader who often sent spices to other lands by ship. She knew all about the ships coming and going from Mamallapuram.As she picked through the radishes and beans, the trader's wife asked, “Any news of your father?”Sundari shook her head sadly. “Why don't you go and ask at the jetty where all the ships are anchored?” she said.“Ask what?” Basava leaned forward eagerly.“Ask the sailors if they have seen your father's ship on their way to Mamallapuram. My husband does that quite often when his ships are late.” That afternoon, the children headed towards the main jetty. They went through the market and took the street going towards the sea. They went past the warehouses where the merchants kept the goods meant to be loaded into ships.In one warehouse, labourers were unloading bags of pepper and coriander seeds. In another, they were stacking up bales of cotton cloth woven in bright colours. Three ships stood anchored at the jetty, tied to the shore by thick ropes. Two more ships were waiting out at sea. Small boats were moving in and out among them with the boatmen selling everything from flowers and fruits to beads and woodcarvings. Among the ships anchored at the jetty was the ship with the black and green sails that they had seen in the morning.They went towards a ship that was being loaded with goods. As they neared it, a soldier carrying a spear stopped them. “Halt! Watch where you are going!” the man yelled. “No one is allowed on this ship without a royal permit.”“Permit?” Sundari looked puzzled. “Why?”“Because it is a royal ship, you silly girl!”“You mean this ship belongs to the royal navy?” Basava's eyes widened in surprise. “Are we going to war?”“Of course not! This is a trading ship. His Majesty King Narasimha Varman owns many ships that trade with far off kingdoms. This one is going to the port of Tamralipti in the north.”“We are looking for a ship that has come from the kingdom of Kamboja...” Sundari began hesitantly. “Our father is a sailor and he sailed for Kamboja many months ago. We want to ask the sailors if they have seen his ship.”“Kamboja?” the soldier asked. He then pointed to the ship with the black and green sails and said, “That ship's arrived from there.”Basava and Sundari ran to the ship, up the gangplank and on to its deck. They stopped when they saw that all the sailors on board were foreigners. They were speaking to each other in a strange tongue!“Oh no!” Basava sighed. “How do we make them understand us?”“Easy!” Sundari grinned. “We talk to them like Amma does when they come to buy vegetables.”“Of course!” laughed Basava, “We act and make signs with our hands.”They looked around trying to spot a sailor with a friendly face. Finally, they went up to a sailor sitting on a roll of rope.He was an old man with a dark, leathery, sunburnt face. There were deep lines around his narrow eyes. He wore loose pyjamas, a sleeveless jacket, bright bangles and earrings.“Kamboja?” Sundari asked nervously. The man nodded happily, “Kamboja!”Basava pointed to the sail, then he pointed to the red skirt Sundari was wearing and said, “Ship? Red sail?”The man frowned and shook his head. Sundari tried to explain. She tapped the side of the ship and said, “Ship?” Then she pointed to the sails and to her skirt, “Sail? Red?” The man pointed to the sea and said something in his own language.“Yes! A ship with red sails. Have you seen it?” Sundari asked excitedly. The man looked a bit puzzled.“Our father... Appa!” Sundari was acting out a tall man with a moustache.“Oh!” The man then flapped his arms to mimic a bird flying.“YES!” the children jumped and yelled in delight, “A flying eagle is on the sail!”The man was laughing as he stood up and pulled them by their hands to the other end of the ship. Then he pointed to the horizon where a ship was slowly sailing towards them, its red sails blowing proudly in the breeze.Basava and Sundari were speechless! There, before their eyes, were the familiar high masts, the curving prow, the red sails with flying eagles...“Your Appa is a sailor?” the man asked gently, looking at their delighted faces. “Is he on that ship?”“Oh!” The children stared at him in disbelief.“You can speak our language!” Sundari exclaimed.“A little bit,” the man laughed. “I come to Mamallapuram often. But I did enjoy your acting, especially ‘the tall man with the moustache' part!”Basava and Sundari taught their sailor-friend many new words as they stood at the jetty, waiting happily for the ship to come home. 1. Basava and Sundari lived over 1200 years ago in the kingdom of King Narasimha Varman of the famous Pallava dynasty. The Pallava kingdom extended over present-day Tamil Nadu.2. The town of Mamallapuram is near Chennai and is famous for its temples. At one time, it was a port from where ships sailed to Cambodia, Burma and Indonesia. Kamboja is the ancient name of Cambodia and Tamralipti was a port in Bengal. 3. What did children study in school in the Pallava times? The subjects included logic, law, mathematics, grammar, astronomy, philosophy, the Vedas, economics and politics.4. Women, especially of noble families, were educated, but were not allowed to study the Vedas.5. People in the Pallava times dyed their hair, used scented hair oil and perfumes. They even used toothpicks after their meals!

We love soccer. Moloko is teaching ussoccer. We are playing soccer. Moloko is the bestteacher! After the game,Moloko told us thatshe has a surprise forus. But she will only let usknow tomorrow. The next day we allcame early to the field.We all love surprises. Moloko has new soccerkits and balls for all ofus!What a great surprise!

When Akai was a little girl, hermother used to put her to sleepon a beautiful mat.Akai's aunt made this specialmat from palm leaves. The mat had bright pink, blueand green colours.It was different from other matsthat Akai's mother had in thehut. The land around Akai's homewas very dry, hot and full ofstones.There were many scorpions,spiders and snakes too. But Akai was never in danger ofbeing bitten by thesedangerous creatures.Her mother said, "Her specialmat protects Akai from anyharm." Akai was a clever child.She discovered where thenearest shallow well was. She also knew where hergrandmother's manyatta waslocated.She often went to enjoydrinking camel milk with hergrandmother. One day, Akai was not so lucky.She left to go to hergrandmother's manyatta, butshe did not get there.She got lost in the hills.Akai was afraid. She sat under an edome treeand waited for help.Soon she fell asleep and had adream. This is how the dream went:She was lying on her specialmat.A woman who looked like hergrandmother was watching overher.The lady smiled and gave her abig bowl of camel milk.Just when Akai stretched outher hand to take the milk, shewoke up. Akai opened her eyes slowly.When she looked up, she saw asmall blue bird standing on abranch above her. When Akai got up, the smallblue bird flapped its wings andled the way for Akai.She followed the bird. Akai came to a place where thepath went in two differentdirections.The blue bird dropped a pieceof a mat that was like Akai'sown mat. Picking up the piece of mat,Akai saw footprints that sheknew were her mother's.Soon she saw the shallow wellfrom where they fetched water. Akai's family sang and dancedto welcome her home.They slaughtered a goat,roasted the meat andcelebrated their child's safereturn. Akai sat on her special mat andenjoyed eating a big piece ofroast meat.

This is Bekku.And that is me in the mirror. This is what I love to do... and this is what Bekku likes to do. This is Bekku's favorite place, and that is mine.When Bekku sees a mouse she runs after it. But if I see a mouse, I run from it. Then when I run after my beeping car, Bekku scoots out through the door ajar. When mamma gives us milk, we both go SLURP, SLURP.Then follow our loud BURP, BURPS! We like different things - that is very plain.Our common love for milk, this will always remain!

It was the Annual Haircut Day for Sringeri Srinivas. Sringeri Srinivas left home as usual to go to the local barber. But the barber said, “Today, I have no time to cut such long hair!” Feeling sad, Sringeri Srinivas went back home to ask his wife for help. But his wife said, “Today, I have no time to cut such long hair!” Feeling a little angry, Sringeri Srinivas went to his friend, the tailor. But the tailor said, “Today, I have no time to cut such long hair!” Now a little worried, Sringeri Srinivas went to one more friend, the carpenter. But the carpenter said, “Today, I have no time to cut such long hair!” Poor Sringeri Srinivas. It seemed no one would cut his hair on this Annual Haircut Day. In tears, he walked off by himself past the village forest. He sat near a cave and cried loudly. “The day is nearly over. How can I keep my promise to cut my hair? Oh God, help me!” The tiger sleeping peacefully inside the cave was very disturbed by all the noise. He came out, roaring, waving his giant paws at Sringeri Srinivas. Poor Sringeri Srinivas was so scared, so scared, so scared that ... ... all the hair fell off his head! Sringeri Srinivas ran all the way back to the village.The tiger went back to sleep. Now, Sringeri Srinivas will not need a haircut for a very long time.

Last Monday,Nakittostarted school. She entered a newclass and met newfriends. Nakitto likes picture books. They went out for morelessons. They learn lettersounds. They rest after lessons.Nakitto sleeps near theteacher. They go for study tours. Nakitto reads with hermother at home.

Once upon a time,there lived a girlin Busolwe village calledNamagunga. She liked flowers so much.one dayshe went to fetch water from riverNakwiga. On her way, she found flowerswhich she admired somuch, waooooo! she said. When she returned she told hermother to also plan flowers at theirhome because............. In churches we find flowers. On our dresses we find flowers. On our shoes we find flowers. We all like flowers.

“Meenu, please get a glass of water for Manoj,” says Amma. Manoj Mama has come to take me to Ooty!“We will go by train, Meenu. It is cold in Ooty even during summer, as it is in the hills,” he says. Summer is the season between spring and monsoon. It is called Greeshma Ritu in Sanskrit. School has closed for the summer.My friends and I do not mind playing outside. But our parents do not like us to play in the hot sun. So we sit under the trees and eat fruits and tell stories. Yesterday was new year's day for my family. We call it Varsha Porappu in Tamil. Why are there so many new year's days in the same year?Grandma made raw mango panna. So sweet and tangy! Jasmit's mother made lassi. So cool and creamy! Last month, Farhan's aunty made falooda for their new year. So milky and sweet-smelling! Appa has gone to Delhi. He says it is very hot and dusty there. In earlier times, people put mats made of khus on windows and kept them wet to cool their homes. Appa wears dark glasses to shade his eyes. He told us that he had to drink lots of nimbu pani to replace the water in his body because you sweat a lot in the heat of Delhi. He says he will bring lovely Dussehri mangoes for us from Delhi. The summer brings heat and dust but it also brings mangoes! Do you remember the little sapling I planted in spring? It is my friend. It is growing up. It has seventeen leaves now. I water the little tree twice every day in summer. I think it is waiting for the rain.Will it bear a fruit for me next summer?

Bheema loves to sleep and just cannot get up early.Ramu, the washerman, scolds Bheema often. One day, Gauri, the cow, asked him, “Bheema, why are you so sad?”Bheema said, “I cannot get up early and Ramu shouts at me every day. Will you wake me up every morning, please?”“Yes, I will,” said Gauri. Early next morning, Gauri mooed loudly, but Bheema did not wake up. Coming back from the river in the evening, Bheema met Moti, the dog.“I can never get up in the morning on time. Will you wake me up?” Bheema asked Moti.“Yes, I will,” said Moti and the next morning he barked and barked but did Bheema wake up? No Sir! That evening Bheema met Cheenu, the rooster.He said to Cheenu, “You crow in the morning and everybody wakes up. Will you wake me up too?”Cheenu agreed. The next morning, Cheenu crowed long and loud, but Bheema did not wake up. The next evening, Bheema saw Kalu, the crow, cawing away happily.“Kalu, will you wake me up in the morning, please?” he asked.Kalu said, “Why not? I will caw and wake you up.”The next morning Kalu cawed all he could but Bheema did not wake up. Bheema was sad.The next morning, a fly came and sat on his nose.“Aaah...chhoooo... ahchhoo!” Bheema got up with a big sneeze. “Wow! I woke up. How did I wake up?” he asked in wonder.“I woke you up,” said the fly.“Will you wake me up like this early every morning?”“Sure,” said the fly. Bheema was happy. Now he would have no problem getting up early every morning!

Long ago, there was a man who had a very serious wound on his leg.He could not stand or walk.This man lived in a village with his wife and their children. The couple had three sons and one daughter.The daughter's name was Nangila. Her duty was to take care of her father.The sons worked on the land and grazed animals. Nangila was a beautiful girl. All the villagers liked and respected her.Her parents wanted a good husband for Nangila.They set a difficult task in order to find the right man. Anyone who wanted to marry Nangila would have to get a herb from a lake near the village.This herb would heal her father's wound.But the lake was filled with dangerous spirits. Some men tried to get the herb but returned without it.Some men did not return from the lake at all. Nangila felt worried. Not even her brothers would go to the lake. She decided to fetch the herb herself.Her mother said, "My daughter, if strong men have failed, will you succeed?" But Nangila had made up her mind. On the way to the lake, Nangila met an old woman carrying wood. She helped the woman to carry her firewood.The old woman was grateful. She said to Nangila, "I will tell you how to reach the spirit lake and what to do when you get there." When she reached the shore of the lake, Nangila saw the spirit family drinking and dancing.She waited and watched. One by one, the spirits fell asleep. Once the spirits were all sleeping Nangila dived into the lake.She found the herb and put it in her bag.As she swam back to land, the waves were high around her. When Nangila reached the shore the spirits were awake. She was afraid, but she sang the song the old woman taught her:I, daughter of Wekesa,Am from the lake.I came because men are too scared to come.My father needs this herb to heal his wound.That is why am here,In the land where many are scared to reach,For you are the rulers. Nangila's voice was so sweet that the spirits asked her to sing for them again and again.Her singing sent the spirits back to sleep.Then Nangila ran very fast until she got to her village. Everyone was waiting for Nangila to return.After treating his wound with the herb her father was able to stand again.The entire village danced and praised Nangila.

Long ago Hen and Eagle werefriends. One day, Eagle foundHen under a tree resting withher shopping bags. Hen wasstanding on one leg. Eagle asked Hen, "Where isyour other leg?" Hen told Eagle, "Theshopkeeper cut off my leg andgave me these groceries inreturn." Eagle asked Hen whetherhe could do the same.He also wanted a bagof groceries. Hen agreed. Eagle went to the shopkeeperand asked her to cut off oneof his legs in exchange forgroceries. The shopkeeperaccepted. The eagle hopped on one legall the way home. But he washappy with the thingsthe shopkeeper gave him. When Eagle reached home,he found Hen with bothher legs. Eagle was furious and chasedHen. But he never caught her.Instead, Eagle always looks outfor Hen's children. Whenever hecatches one, he eats it.

The little elephant's name was Golu. He was as round as a drum. The little rabbit was called Chhotu. He looked like a ball of cotton. They played together.One day, Golu said, “Let's play a new game today.” “You sit down. I'll land on your back in one flying leap,” said Chhotu. Golu sat down. Chhotu took a mighty leap. Thump! He landed on Golu's back.“Wow!” laughed Golu and said, “My turn now. You sit down and I will leap on your back.” “You!”“Yes, me.”“How can you do that?” asked Chhotu. "Like this!" Golu showed him. Thud... thud... thud...A shower of coconuts came down on Golu's head. He ran away on fat legs, scared. One small coconut fell on Chhotu. ‘That's better,' thought Chhotu, ‘Better a coconut than an elephant on my head!'

Joy played all the day. Her mother told her to wash. She picked up her tooth brush. Her mother put water in basin for her. She dried her face. She joined her sister to sleep. In the morning she brushed her teeth. Her mother helped her dress up. She tied her shoes. Joy goes to school. Joy is in class.

I have many friends. Some of my friends are older and... some of them are younger than me. Some of my friends are old. And some of them are tiny! Some of my friends have tails... Some of my friends have no feet. Some of my friends fly. Some of them swim. Oh! Books are my friends too! But who is my best friend?Who? Who? Who? My mother!!!

I like playing with myfriend Chuma. Chuma and I like eachother.When we are sent, wego together. One day I was sent bymy grandmother to theshop to buy salt andcooking oil.I went with Chuma. On the way, we saw ourfriends playing football. I wanted to play the ballvery much.I said, "Ah! Football." I said to Chuma, "Let'sgo and ask them to letus play with them. I likeplaying football verymuch." Chuma replied, "Let usgo to the shop first thenwe can come to play." But I told Chuma, "Letus play first! If we gohome, grandmother willnot allow us." Our friends allowed usto play the ball withthem.I was the goal keeper. I worked hard to catchthe ball.My friends were notable to score any goals. The field was full ofsand.The goal posts weremade of two big stones. After the game, wewent to the shop but wehad lost the money.I started to cry.Chuma said, "Stopcrying. You wanted usto play before going tothe shop." We returned homewithout salt or cookingoil.We were very dirty andworried. Grandmother was veryannoyed when wereached home.The first question sheasked us was, "Wherewere you all this time?" She forgave us butwarned us, "Never go toplay again withoutpermission." We quickly went to feedthe ducks.Later on, we cleanedourselves.

Hi, I am Khaidi. I am seven years old.I have a car, a lovely long car. Papa made it for my birthday. I love my car and love to drive it all day long.Drooomm... here I go ...drooomm... there I go.Drooomm... I go everywhere. I visit my relatives driving my car,and in school, my friends want my car.I love my grandma and she loves to see me drive. With my car I can go round and round my home.With my car I can go around the earth.I can go around the sun, the moon and the stars. My little brother loves riding on my car.Mummy tells us not to do so, but do we care! Now, here I am without my car and...my brother without his tooth!But still we go drooomm...with my brother on my back!

A long time ago, three girls wentout to collect wood. It was a hot day so they went downto the river to swim.They played and splashed andswam in the water. Suddenly, they realised that it waslate.They hurried back to the village. When they were nearly home,Nozibele put her hand to her neck.She had forgotten her necklace!"Please come back with me!" shebegged her friends.But her friends said it was too late. So Nozibele went back to the riveralone.She found her necklace and hurriedhome.But she got lost in the dark. In the distance she saw lightcoming from a hut.She hurried towards it and knockedat the door. To her surprise, a dog opened thedoor and said, "What do you want?""I'm lost and I need a place tosleep," said Nozibele."Come in, or I'll bite you!" said thedog.So Nozibele went in. Then the dog said, "Cook for me!""But I've never cooked for a dogbefore," she answered."Cook, or I'll bite you!" said the dog.So Nozibele cooked some food forthe dog. Then the dog said, "Make the bedfor me!"Nozibele answered, "I've nevermade a bed for a dog.""Make the bed, or I'll bite you!" thedog said.So Nozibele made the bed. Every day she had to cook andsweep and wash for the dog.Then one day the dog said,"Nozibele, today I have to visitsome friends. Sweep the house,cook the food and wash my thingsbefore I come back." As soon as the dog had gone,Nozibele took three hairs from herhead.She put one hair under the bed, onebehind the door, and one in thekraal.Then she ran home as fast as shecould. When the dog came back, he lookedfor Nozibele."Nozibele, where are you?" heshouted."I'm here, under the bed," said thefirst hair."I'm here, behind the door," said thesecond hair."I'm here, in the kraal," said thethird hair. Then the dog knew that Nozibelehad tricked him.So he ran and ran all the way to thevillage.But Nozibele's brothers werewaiting there with big sticks.The dog turned and ran away andhas never been seen since.

I peel the potatoes. I chop a cabbage. I grate the carrots. I wash the beans. I cut the butternut. I chop the spinach. My mom chops theonions. Onions make me crywhen they are chopped.

Not here, not there.Where have you gone? Not on the sofa.Not under the cot. Not in the box.Not under my sister's frock. Not under the pillow.Not in my bag.Sob, sob, where have you gone? I have looked in every room,l have looked under every book. I have looked under the chair,I have looked under the stool.Where have you gone? Soon granny came back from her walk."Look what I found in the park." "It can sway, it can bounce.It can spin, it can dangle.Ha-ha, hee-hee," said Granny with a giggle. Oh Granny! Thank you so much!You have found my dear yo-yo! "Yo-yo? What a funny name!What a funny toy!I want to play with it,It gives me so much joy!" Giggle, giggle, giggling away,Granny played, with my little toy.For the rest of the day!

How many legs do twoladybirds have? How many wings dofour birds have? How many horns dothree rhinos have? How many trunks dofive elephants have? How many ears doseven dogs have? How many tails dothree monkeys have? How many eyes do sixcats have? How many legs doesone worm have?

Arjun had three wheels, one headlight and a coat of green and yellow. He belonged to the largest family in the whole of Delhi. Everywhere Arjun went there were brothers, sisters, aunties, uncles and cousins.‘Go carefully!' they beeped.‘Sure!' he would beep in reply. Arjun worked hard, day and night.Pht-pht-tuka-tuka-tuk, he went. Pht-pht-tuka-tuka-tuk!He never complained because Autowallah Sirish worked hard too. Sirishji had old bones that caused him pain. He decorated Arjun's dashboard with plastic flowers and pictures of movie stars. He quenched Arjun's thirst for clean gas, even when the queues were long. And whenever Arjun's canopy was torn, he wasted no time taking it to be patched. Arjun liked taking whole families to Lajpat Nagar Market. His heart sang when tourists chose three wheels over four. He loved to rest with Sirishji in the shade of a tree outside Qutab Minar. Arjun never tired of the glamour of Connaught Place at night. He was thrilled by the bustle outside the railway station, and by the crowds that spewed from Feroz Shah Kotla after a cricket match.Life was good, and Arjun knew he should never wish for more. But secretly, Arjun did wish for more. Secretly, he wanted to fly. Oh, to have helicopter blades! Arjun thought. They would chop the air above his canopy. Sirishji would wrap his head in a scarf, and the ends of it would flap gaily in the breeze. Off they would go, pht-pht-tuka-tuka-tuk in the sky! But Arjun knew this was only a dream. An auto having helicopter blades would be like an elephant having wings, or a train that could zoom off into space like a rocket, with its carriages trailing behind. One hot day, Arjun was waiting in a hotch-potch of traffic at a busy intersection. Behind Sirishji sat a grey-haired woman in a dull, well-worn saree.Pht-pht-pht-pht... A grubby boy came squeezing between cars and autos, selling water. His eyes sparkled like polished stones as he held out one frosted bottle.“Ma'am? Very cold... very good... magic.”The woman laughed. “Magic?”The boy wobbled his head with such gusto that Arjun thought it might fall off. "We all need a little magic," the woman said. She produced some rupees and took two bottles from the boy. Immediately, she handed one to Sirishji. Sirishji smiled broadly, showing the woman his paan-stained teeth. He drank quickly and the traffic budged.“Already the magic is working,” Sirishji joked. The woman drank too, spilling a little on Arjun as he started forward.Pht-pht-tuka-tuka-tuk went Arjun, beeping a cheery hello to one of his brothers. No sooner were they moving than Arjun began to feel light on his wheels. The traffic parted before him and he sailed through. Astonished by the open road, Sirishji caught the woman's eye in his rear-view mirror.“Yes, very magical, ma'am!”Now the woman's saree carried a brilliant sheen, and was embroidered with fine gold thread. “Magic...” she chuckled. Arjun's wheels lifted off the road. Up, up he went...Pht-pht-tuka-tuka-tuk... up, up, up! There were no helicopter blades to help him. Magic, Arjun thought. It's auto magic! A flock of birds scattered. Arjun's headlight was lit with joy. Arjun flew high above Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and India Gate. He looked upon Humayun's Tomb, the Yamuna River and the gracious temple of Akshardham. He saw a giant web of roads, like the work of a crazy spider.Wide-eyed, Sirishji began shrieking with the fun of it all. He no longer gripped the handlebar, no longer dodged cars. The woman fingered her beautiful saree. “Sir,” she called, looking at the rear-view mirror. “Your face!”When Sirishji looked at himself, he saw a face like that of a Bollywood hero. His teeth shone white and his skin was radiant. “We must drink more water,” he roared. But what are we doing? Arjun wondered. Where can we go? What am I, if I am no longer driven? Never had Arjun been so free. Yet never had he felt so lost.In the world he had known, every journey had purpose, each destination was temporary. In boundless quiet above all the honking cars, Arjun missed the roads of his life, jammed with cars, motorcycles and buses. Below, he saw his family at work, dots of yellow canopy glowing bright like beacons.Arjun even missed the rush and bustle of people, all so eager to arrive somewhere else. Places to go, places to go...pht-pht-tuka-tuka-tuk... The woman looked down and thought of the joys below. It was easy now to forget the shimmer of her saree.I was going to visit my daughter and grandchildren, she thought. They will be waiting. They are the real magic in my life. Already, Sirishji was tired of his Bollywood face. What use is it, he wondered. Once he had wished only for this. Now Sirishji wanted only the comfort of his own skin. Arjun's headlight had grown dull. He felt aimless. He could read Sirishji's thoughts. He could sense the woman's mood.Lower and lower he flew. The city radiated warmth. The nearer Arjun got, the more energy it gave him. Sirishji became busy again, drinking in the familiar magic of the city. Every sign and every turning spoke to him. Very soon he could recognise himself again. He knew where he was going. He was already there. The woman's saree became dull, but her face was bright. Down to earth they came.Arjun's wheels touched warm asphalt and his engine sighed with relief. Pht-pht-tuka-tuka-tuk... “Go carefully,” beeped a brother from the street corner. The woman's grandchildren waved from a window above. She stepped down and handed Sirishji her fare. “Auto! Auto! Auto!” Arjun heard the wonderful cry of a stranger.Every ride would be new, part of his endless journey, full of surprises.

My name is Simo Meet my new friends Zizo, Lele, Sisa andAyanda Zizo loves football Lele loves to swim Sisa loves to play hideand seek Ayanda loves reading I enjoy everything myfriends love I will play football withZizo Sometimes I swim withLele Or even play hide andseek with Sisa Come on , make newfriends and have fun Play football together Swim together Play hide and seektogether Or even read together

On Sunday, Manu's parents got him a red raincoat.“Ma, may I wear it now?” asked Manu.“No, my dear, the rains are near, but just now the sky is clear,” said Ma. Monday was bright and sunny.“WILL it rain today, Mummy?” asked Manu.“No Manu, not today. If you wear your raincoat, you will look quite funny!” said Ma. On Tuesday, the sky was blue.“Ma, WHEN will my wish come true?” asked Manu.“Not today, my dear, there is just one white cloud in the sky!” said Ma. Wednesday was hot.“Ma, WHY doesn't it rain?” asked Manu.“Son, I think it will rain very soon. Maybe even before it is noon,” said Ma. On Thursday Manu went on a picnic. “Ma, WHAT if it rains? Shall I take the raincoat with me?” asked Manu.“No my dear, it will not rain today. The little white clouds are too high in the sky,” said Ma. Friday was cloudy.“Ma, will it rain today?” asked Manu loudly.“It might, my dear. There are some dark clouds low down in the sky,” said Ma. Saturday began with a bang!Badaboom!"Ma, is that thunder I hear? Will it rain very soon?" asked Manu. And then at last, it started raining!“Oh, it's raining, it's raining,” sang Manu, running out. “But Manu,” called Ma, running after him, “you forgot your raincoat!”

Bani is a little girl of four.She lives in a house with a green door.She goes to a school with bright yellow windows and red doors. Bani loves her school. Along with lessons, she dances, sings and plays with her friends. One night, Bani was really tired. As she closed her eyes to sleep, she felt herself floating away, out of the house, down the hill into a grove of trees. Wake up! Wake up Bani! Bani woke up with a start. She saw many strange children with funny faces and hats standing in front of her. The children made a ring around Bani and began singing.“Welcome! Welcome! We have waited for you for nearly a year.”“For a whole year!” whispered Bani.“Yes! Yes!” they shouted. “We know you can float in your sleep.”“May be sing in your sleep.”“But I am not asleep,” said Bani pinching herself, “Ouch!”“Even fly in your sleep,” they sang.“Fly? How and where?” asked Bani.“Stretch your arms out like wings, fly like a bird, a cloud or anything.” Bani stretched out her arms and she was flying with her new friends.They flew over the forest and when Bani looked down, she saw hundreds of lights. She followed the children down towards the lights.Bani saw a town all made of giant mushrooms.There were green mushrooms, yellow, white, purple and red mushrooms.In each mushroom was a house. Bani flew into one house. The house was like any other house, but the floors were mushroom floors – so – so – soft. Softer than any carpet. The children skipped and ran showing Bani the mushroom town. “Come! Let us eat,” said the children together. All Bani could see were fields and fields of odd looking mushrooms.“What funny mushrooms,” said Bani. “Oh! those are laddoo mushrooms.”Bani was surprised to see that on top of each mushroom was a laddoo. There were yellow, green and white laddoos and barfis too. Bani broke off one laddoo and ate it. It was so...o...delicious.Quite laddoo–licious, she thought. Bani heard her name being called.She saw mushrooms shaped like books. The pages were turning by themselves.The figures on these pages were jumping up and down, “Bani come read with us.” Bani went to the book mushrooms. The figures told her stories of kings, queens, fairies and brave warriors. She listened while eating mushroom chips.Soon she was very thirsty. The children took her to a stream of sparkling water.It was lemonade. The next stream was orange juice and another mango juice.Bani drank a little from all the streams. It was nice and cold. There was wonderful music coming from the music mushrooms. Bani found herself dancing with a little boy in a pointed hat and pointed shoes. “What is your name?” asked Bani.“I am Pointy,” said he. Even his face was pointed.Then Bani danced with a little girl who wore a heart-shaped hat and shoes to match her heart-shaped face. “I am Little Heart,” she sang. Bani sang and danced with all the children. “I am tired,” said Bani, “Can we rest?”“No time! No time! Take a sip of lemonade.”Bani took a sip and she felt better.“Let us fly to the mountains,” they said. They flew past mountains made of cake, ice cream and candy. Then they came to the very last mountain. It was a toy mountain.Bani had never seen so many toys! The children played with brightly coloured magic balls that bounced here and there making the children jump.Toy cars whizzed up to them and took them for rides. There were magic jigsaw puzzles that spoke, “Put us together!”Coloured blocks shouted, “Build us up and you can knock us down.”Bani had a great time. Now it was time to go home.They all flew over the forest to Bani's home. “Bye bye Bani! Come again!” The children flew back to mushroom town. Bani got into her bed and fell fast asleep. In the morning she thought she had such a lovely dream, till she opened her hand and saw a ...What do you think Bani saw in her hand?Why don't you make your own little story ... about Bani.

Once upon a time there lived threegirls in a desert village in theKalahari. Katitu Momambo was theyoungest of the three. She wassmall but clever and wise.The three big girls went into theveld one day to gather food andwood. Little Katitu ran after them,but the sisters sent her back. "Goback Katitu! You are too small to gowith us! Stay at home!" they said.Katitu did not pay attention tothem. She followed them from adistance. When they noticed her, they weretoo far away from home to send herback, so she joined them.While she was walking behindthem, Katitu cut herself some wood.She made herself a bow and manyarrows.The girls walked and walked andwalked until the sun dropped intothe Kalahari horizon. They werelost.They walked into a deserted villageand found a hut in which to spendthe night. An old woman was sitting next tothe hut.Little Katitu went and greeted her."Oh?" answered the old woman,"This is the village of the Big Snake!He stays in a big hole in the cattlekraal. When people come to milkthe cows, he eats them! He will goto your hut at night when you sleepand kill you there!" Wise little Katitu did not panic. She asked the old woman for ahard cow skin to cover the door of their sleeping hut. Then Katituwanted to sleep a little, so that she could stay awake throughoutthe night. "When the wind begins to blow," she said to her sisters,"you must wake me up."The wind came up, the sisters awoke Katitu and went to sleep.Katitu fixed the hard cow skin against the door of the hut andmade a little hole in the middle for her bow and arrows.Katitu heard the Big Snake approach. "Hai, gom-gom, hai, gom-gom,where are they?" sang the BigSnake.The little clever girl answered himwith a chant, "Here they are, herethey are!"Then the Big Snake rushed againstthe hard skin at the door of the hut.Little Katitu shot an arrow throughthe hole in the skin.Yes, the little girl killed the BigSnake. Then Katitu woke up the older girls."Sister, sister, sister," shewhispered, "get up, get up, get up!" And when the girls woke up theysaw a big snake lying there."Come, we have to take him back tohis hole!" shouted Katitu.They rolled him up, rolled him up,rolled him up and they set him rightback in his hole."Hurry! We have to run!" And thegirls ran and ran and ran. The next morning, the Big Snake's wife told his children to go andlook for him. When his children found him lying dead in his hole,they screamed: "Father is dead! Quick, let us go after those girls!"All the snake's children went after the girls.Katitu told her sisters to turn into trees. When the snakes arrivedat the spot where they had seen the girls, only trees were standingthere. The snakes were tired and lay under the trees to sleep.When they were asleep, the girls turned back into human beingsand ran on. The girls continued to run and werevery tired and thirsty. Eventually,they saw a waterhole! None of oldersisters wanted to scoop the waterfrom the deep well. They askedKatitu to climb in as she was thesmallest."Will you help me out of the well if Iclimb into it?" asked Katitu."Yes," they replied, "we will helpyou."Katitu went into the well andscooped water for her sisters. Each girl drank and then walkedaway. They all left Katitu in the deepwell and walked home.Later that evening, the elephantscame to drink. One of them drankand left. Another one drank and left.The last elephant drank andswallowed Katitu with the water!A few drops of Katitu's bloodsprayed onto the reeds growing atthe water hole. Meanwhile, Katitu's sisters had arrived home without any food orwood. They were crying and told the family that Katitu was lost.Everyone started searching for her.Katitu's little brother and his friend were searching too. Theybecame very tired and rested next to a waterhole. They cut somereeds to make themselves flutes. When Katitu's brother played onhis flute, the flute sang by itself:"Is this my brother who plays me, who plays me,The other girls left me, left me and the elephant swallowed me,swallowed me!"The boy rushed home and handed the reed to his father, whoplayed it. And again, the reed sang:"Is this my father who plays me, plays me?The other girls left me, left me, and the elephant swallowed me,swallowed me!"The father handed the reed to Katitu's mother, who played it. Andagain, the reed sang:"Is this my mother who plays me, plays me?The other girls left me, left me, and the elephant swallowed me,swallowed me!" Katitu's father called the youngmen of the homestead and orderedthem to find the tracks of theelephants and find Katitu.The young men hurried off. Theymet the first group of elephants andasked them, "Elephants, elephants,have you seen the one whoswallowed our girl?"And the elephants sang:"!a plaf! !a plaf! We trot lightly. Weare so light, we carry nothing!"And they passed on. The young men met up with an oldelephant in the bush and asked,"Old elephant, elephant, have youseen the one who swallowed ourgirl?" The old elephant sang:"!a plaf! !a plaf! I trot lightly! I amso light, I carry nothing!"But now the young men heard alittle voice in the belly of theelephant."Cut him open! Go on, cut him onhis left side, for I am sitting on hisleft side!" said the voice. They held the old elephant down and cut open his belly. There waslittle Katitu lying inside! The young men took her out and carriedher home. Katitu was welcomed as a hero by the villagers.And that is the tale of Katitu Mamombo. The wise little girl whosaved her sisters from the Big Snake, saved them from the snake'schildren, and (with the help of her brother) saved herself from thebelly of the elephant.Of course, her sisters were punished. Story notesJu|'hoan storyteller, Nxisae Magdaline Nxao, told a short version ofthis story in Dkar, Botswana, in 2005 (Winberg 2009). In 1993,Sigrid Schmidt recorded another version from Paulina Oxoros innorthern Namibia (Schmidt 2007: 59). This particular version wasretold by Marlene Winberg in 2013 for the Cave to Cave EuropeanUnion storytelling project in Spain, based on Nxao and Schmidt'srecording. The 'clever little girl' belongs to a well-known story typewhere a vulnerable young girl (or young boy), saves the lives ofothers, by engaging her wit and the power of words, rather thansupernatural means to solve problems.The illustrations in this story are from story boards by MarleneWinberg, interpreted digitally by Satsiri Winberg throughmanipulations of the Manyeka Art Collection of paintings made bySan artists.

I see a blue butterfly waving goodbye I see a yellow bee drinking a cup of tea I see a red fish in a dish I see a green frog playing with a puppy dog I see an orange duckwishing me good luck I see a violet flowerdancing with a caterpillar I see a grey and black catwearing an orange hat I see a grey and brown mousehiding in a pink house I see a red and black foxwearing purple socks I see a green grasshopper reading ablack and white newspaper I see a black and purple goatsailing in a red boat I see a green and brown crocodilegiving me a big smile I see a black and blue snakeeating a slice of cake I see a red and yellow henwriting with a pen I see a black and orange tigerstanding in the water I see with my two black eyesall the colours as they fly

Two small streamsformed River Temu. Thesheep, goats and deerlived because of RiverTemu. But when Matatabecame headman, hecut down trees. Hemade a path from thetop of the hill to thebottom. Matata's children andtheir friends ran all overthe place. They brokebranches. They lit firesand left them burning. River Temu stopped flowing. Thedeer went away. The sheep andgoats grew thinner and thinner. The people chased away Matata,the headman. They appointedBaraka as the new leader. Thepeople were happy. The path was closedand grass grew onceagain. River Temu wasrevived. The landbecame greener thanever before. People sang, "Long liveBaraka, long liveBaraka." "May ourchildren and children'schildren forever respectRiver Temu."

Why is the baby crying? I think she is hungry. Why is the boy sad? I think he is missing his father. Why is the girl happy? She has a new dress. Why is the old man laughing? He read a good joke. Why is the lady smiling? Her children are reading quietly. What is this lady feeling?I think she is feeling shy.

This is the story of Ngede, the Honeyguide, and a greedy young man named Gingile.One day while Gingile was out hunting he heard the call of Ngede. Gingile's mouth began to water at the thought of honey. He stopped and listened carefully, searching until he saw the bird in the branches above his head."Chitik-chitik-chitik," the little bird rattled, as he flew to the next tree, and the next."Chitik, chitik, chitik," he called, stopping from time to time to be sure that Gingile followed. After half an hour, they reached a huge wild fig tree.Ngede hopped about madly among the branches. He then settled on one branch and cocked his head at Gingile as if to say, "Here it is! Come now! What is taking you so long?"Gingile couldn't see any bees from under the tree, but he trusted Ngede. So Gingile put down his hunting spear under the tree, gathered some dry twigs and made a small fire.When the fire was burning well, he put a long dry stick into the heart of the fire. This wood was especially known to make lots of smoke while it burned.He began climbing, holding the cool end of the smoking stick in his teeth. Soon he could hear the loud buzzing of the busy bees. They were coming in and out of a hollow in the tree trunk – their hive.When Gingile reached the hive he pushed the smoking end of the stick into the hollow.The bees came rushing out, angry and mean. They flew away because they didn't like the smoke – but not before they had given Gingile some painful stings! When the bees were out, Gingile pushed his hands into the nest. He took out handfuls of the heavy comb, dripping with rich honey and full of fat, white grubs.He put the comb carefully in the pouch he carried on his shoulder, and started to climb down the tree. Ngede eagerly watched everything that Gingile was doing. He was waiting for him to leave a fat piece of honeycomb as a thank-you offering to the Honeyguide.Ngede flittered from branch to branch, closer and closer to the ground. Finally Gingile reached the bottom of the tree.Ngede perched on a rock near the boy and waited for his reward. But, Gingile put out the fire, picked up his spear and started walking home, ignoring the bird.Ngede called out angrily, "VIC-torr! VIC-torrr!"Gingile stopped, stared at the little bird and laughed aloud. "You want some honey, do you, my friend? Ha! But I did all the work, and got all the stings. Why should I share any of this lovely honey with you?" Then he walked off.Ngede was furious! This was no way to treat him! But he would get his revenge. One day several weeks later Gingile again heard the honey call of Ngede. He remembered the delicious honey, and eagerly followed the bird once again.After leading Gingile along the edge of the forest, Ngede stopped to rest in a great umbrella thorn. "Ahh," thought Gingile. "The hive must be in this tree." He quickly made his small fire and began to climb, the smoking branch in his teeth. Ngede sat and watched. Gingile climbed, wondering why he didn't hear the usual buzzing. "Perhaps the hive is deep in the tree," he thought to himself. He pulled himself up another branch. But instead of the hive, he was staring into the face of a leopard!Leopard was very angry at having her sleep so rudely interrupted. She narrowed her eyes, opened her mouth to reveal her very large and very sharp teeth. Before Leopard could take a swipe at Gingile, he rushed down the tree.In his hurry he missed a branch, and landed with a heavy thud on the ground twisting his ankle. He hobbled off as fast as he could. Luckily for him, Leopard was still too sleepy to chase him. Ngede, the Honeyguide, had his revenge.And Gingile learned his lesson. And so, when the children of Gingile hear the story of Ngede they have respect for the little bird. Whenever they harvest honey, they make sure to leave the biggest part of the comb for Honeyguide!

Why is the sky blue? It is not always blue. Is it? Why are leaves green? They are not always green. Are they? Why are bananas yellow? Ripe bananas are yellow. Raw bananas are green. Why are umbrellas black? All umbrellas are not black. Why is blood red? There is iron in the blood. That makes it red. Why is salt white?I don't know.

One elephant went todrink water. Two giraffes went todrink water. There are threebuffaloes and fourbirds. They are all goingto drink water. Five impalas and sixwild hogs are going todrink water. Seven frogs and eightfish are in the water. Nine zebras are goingto drink water. One lion came to drinkwater. Who is brave enough tocontinue drinking?

Am I a good boy? Yes, you are a good boy. Am I a sweet girl? Yes, sometimes you are a sweet girl. Is he a bad boy? Yes, sometimes he is a bad boy. Is she a naughty girl? Sometimes she is very naughty. Is he a quiet boy? He likes noise. You are the best.You are the best too.

Once long ago, the birds had ameeting. They wanted a king. The Eagle wanted to be king.The other birds said, "Your callis too sad to be king".The Ostrich wanted to be king.The other birds said, "You can'tfly". Peacock wanted to be king. Theother birds said, "You are tooproud. You cannot be king".Owl wanted to be king. Theother birds said, "You sleepduring the day.You cannot beking". And so they did not get too far.Then one bird said, "Who canfly the highest? That bird shouldbe king".All the birds flew up up up intothe sky. Goose flew over the highestmountains in the world.Eagle flew into the blue abovethe mountains.But Vulture flew withoutstopping, up towards the sun. High above them, the birdsheard Vulture cry, "I am thehighest, I am king!" Vulture heard a tiny voice,"Tink, tink, tink! I am thehighest, I am king." It wasNcede, the Neddicky, thesmallest bird of all!He had held onto the feathersof Vulture as he flew up into thesky! So Vulture flew down with thelittle bird still under his wing.The other birds were cross withNcede. They waited for him,ready to pluck out all hisfeathers But the quick little bird saw howangry they were, and flew intoan empty snake hole. The birds told Owl to wait nearthe hole and catch him when hecomes out.So Owl sat in front of the hole. But the sun was warm and soonOwl was fast asleep.The little bird peeped out, sawthat Owl was asleep, and z-zip,away he went. Owl was very ashamed that hehad let the little bird escape.Now he only hunts at night.In the day, he sleeps, awayfrom the sight of the otherbirds.

“What's wrong Grandpa, why are you not reading the newspaper?”asked Gulli one morning.“Oh dear, I broke my reading glasses, and I can't read anything without them,”said Grandpa. “Ah, don't you worry, Grandpa. Let me go and get my box of things.”Gulli ran out fast, and came back with his little brown box. Clink, clonk, dadum-dum. What has he found at last?A shining bright magnifying glass!If you care to look through it, everything will look better and bigger. "Thank you, this is just fine, now I can read each and every line," said Grandpa. “What is wrong, Mangal Chacha?” asked Gulli one Sunday.“I have to pour oil from this pack, but the bottle's neck is so small. I am sure I will make a complete mess in my kitchen,” said Mangal Chacha.“Ah, don't worry, let me find you something really fast,” said Gulli. Clink, clonk, dadum-dum, let's see what Gulli has found this time! A funnel with a big, wide mouth! Pour anything from the top, and see how it comes down so neatly, drop by drop!"Here, Mangal Chacha, use this one, the kitchen will be clean and cooking will be fun." "Thank you Gulli, for helping me out!" “What are you looking for, Grandma?” asked Gulli.“Oh, I was mending Grandpa's monkey cap, and the needle just fell off from my lap!” said Grandma.“You just sit here on the chair that rocks, while I go find something from my little brown box!” said Gulli. Clink, clonk, dadum-dum, what has Gulli found this time?A magnet! All the little metal things will stick to that!"Let me scan the ground, and the needle will soon be found," said Gulli. “Look Grandma, see how your needle is stuck, and I also found other long-lost metal stuff!”“Thank you Gulli, you are so wise. Your little brown box is really nice!” said Grandma.

Once upon a time, sly jackal wokeup early in the morning. He wasvery hungry. His tummy gave a biggrowl. GRRrrrrr! He jumped up andwent searching for food. He wandered around the forest forhours without getting any food. Thesun was very hot. Sly jackal couldbarely see in front of him. All hecould think of was his hungerpangs. "Aaauuuu!" Sly jackal let out a loudscream. He fell into a well right infront of him. He was so hungry thathe did not spot it. "Oh my hat!" he thought. "I have toget out of this well. I will die ofhunger." Sly jackal screamed and shouted:"Help! Anyone help!" Donkey wasgrazing a few metres away from thewell. Donkey heard sly jackal'sdesperate cry. He came rushing. "What is the matter?" Donkey wasvery worried."The water in this well is cool andsweet. I am bored swimming alone.I need someone to help me swim.Please will you join me?" "The sun is very hot," said donkey."I can't swim very well though.""Jump in! I will help you come out ofthe well," promised the sly jackal. Donkey jumped into the well. Thewater was so cool. He was free fromthe heat. Before he knew it, the slyjackal had jumped on his back andout of the well. Sly jackal laughedand ran away. Donkey was trappedin the well. He started screamingand shouting: "Help! Anyone help!"

This is the story of a nine-year old giant called Paplu. He was very different from the other giants. They loved to fight, whereas Paplu hated fighting. While his classmates would spend their time twisting the ears of dinosaurs or yanking the tails of tigers, Paplu would be busy protecting his friends.Paplu's mother was worried about her son. One night she woke up Paplu. “Son, you will never be happy staying in our tribe. I am taking you to a village where people are normal human beings. You will stay there with Raghav, the head man.”Just before they reached the village, Paplu's mother asked him to close his eyes. When he opened them, he almost fainted. He had shrunk to one-tenth his size and so had she. Paplu's mother handed him over to Raghav and left. Paplu soon made friends with the boys and girls of the village.One day Raghav came home very worried.“A ruthless bandit called Angaar has blocked the only way out of our village. We cannot go to our farms to work and will surely starve,” he said. Paplu wished he could help Raghav in some way.Paplu suddenly remembered something. Before leaving the forest, his mother had told him the magic words which would make him a giant once again. And as a giant, he would easily be able to take care of Angaar.Paplu did everything he could, including standing on his head and pulling his own ears, but he couldn't remember those words. Then Paplu heard a soft lisp. “Paplu paiyaa, play with me, pleath.”It was his two-year old neighbour Soni. Paplu was her best friend. He picked her up and threw her high in the air and she started singing:“Paplu paiyya, Paplu paiyaa thlow me up, cath me quick, Paplu paiyya, Paplu paiyya please show me youll magic thlik.”Paplu froze! These words and the tune sounded very familiar. He rushed inside and came out with a blue stone in his hand.He now remembered what his mother had told him, “Son, throw the stone in the air and say these words: I'll throw you up, I'll catch you quick. Don't forget my magic trick.” As Paplu threw the stone and recited the words, he felt himself swelling up like a balloon.Suddenly he heard a sound – R-r-rip! R-ri-ip!! His clothes were tearing. If he didn't look for cover, he would soon be standing bang in the middle of the village, in clothes hundred sizes too small for him.All he would have to cover his modesty would be strips of cloth and little else. Paplu rushed into the woods with the sound ‘R-r-rip! Rri-i-p!' chasing him. Once deep into the undergrowth, Paplu got down on his knees.It looked like he had missed a word or two in the magic chant his mother had made him learn. That is why his clothes had not grown along with his body! What was he to do now? Although he had become a giant, he couldn't venture out on his rescue mission in his birthday suit. He needed clothes urgently. But how was he to get clothes his size and that too, quickly?He heard a voice and looked down. It was Raghav. “Soni told me you had become big and that you had run away somewhere. When I heard this strange story, I came out to investigate.”“Using a magic trick my mother taught me, I have become a giant. Now I can take care of Angaar and his gang,” said Paplu.“That's great, then what are you waiting for?”“My clothes didn't keep pace with my growth. I am wearing almost nothing. How can I come out like this?” Raghav thought for some time and said, “Okay, give me some time. By nightfall, I'll have your clothes ready.” Raghav went back home and summoned all the tailors in the village. Twenty one tailors appeared in no time. Raghav explained the problem to them and said, “I want a pair of pyjamas and a kurta, to be stitched as soon as possible for Paplu.”Soon ‘Operation Paplu Dress' started. It was quite funny to see the tailors scrambling up Paplu's back, legs and hands to take his measurements. The whole village got into action contributing whatever material they could. Even Soni donated her doll's shawl to the project!In seven hours, the dress was ready. In seven hours, with a whoop of joy, Paplu stood up towering over the villagers. He looked really smart with the multi-coloured kurta and an equally multi-coloured pyjama. There was thunderous applause. It was just past midnight. Angaar and his men were fast asleep. Only two bandits were on guard. Suddenly Angaar woke up. He could hear a strange sound. He got up and picking up his sword, rushed out of his tent. The other dacoits too were coming out of their enclosures, spears and swords in hand.“Whoosh!” There was the sound again. It seemed to be growing louder and closer. “WHOOSH!”Angaar looked around. A dust storm seemed to be gathering momentum.Trees had started swaying and the noise was slowly becoming deafening.“WHOOSH! WHOOSH!” Angaar felt himself being picked up by the air current. He desperately tried to hold on, flaying his arms and legs, but it was no use. He was flying in the air.To his left, was his deputy Jarnail looking like an ungainly dinosaur. To his right, was his most accomplished swordsman, Talwar, air-borne like his colleagues, desperately trying to reach out for his sword which was flying ahead of him. A few minutes later, there was a splash. They landed in the river to the south of the village. As they swam to the shore, spluttering and shivering, a huge shadow loomed over their heads.“Angaar, you scoundrel!” the shadow thundered, its voice echoing in the night.“Y...yes,” stammered the dreaded Angaar. He had never been so terrified in his life, since the day his father, Rosh Bundela had walloped him for eating up his jalebis.“This time I have merely roughed you up. Next time, if you or any of your men come anywhere close to the village, I'll rip each and every limb from your bodies and chew them up.”“Y..yes, Maharaj, we will never again come within a thousand miles of this place.” “Good. Remember, if I hear you are even passing through these parts, I'll make a paste of you and your gang and feed it to the fish in this river.”“Yes, Maharaj. But please, do tell me, who are you? I have never seen you in these parts.”“I am a guardian of this village,” Paplu said. He paused for a good ten seconds and then in his deepest tone said, “And my name is Paplu, the Giant.”And with these words, Paplu stormed back to the village. Angaar and his men left the same night and were never heard of again.Paplu went back to his original shape and size. However, he couldn't get back his original name. No one called him Paplu anymore. To everyone, and even to Soni, he was Paplu, the Giant.

As I was moving inBuŋaanga village Ifound a fat hornbill. When I struck it with acatapult, it shouted"ŋaa, ŋaa, ŋa!" The hornbill flew intothe air.But I ran after itthrough the grass... ...until it perched on adead tree.Then I shot it again.This time it fell to theground. I picked up the hornbill. And I gave it toHiryagaana: one whoeats whatever he finds.(One time, I gave himNamupongera.)He happily received thehornbill. The head of the hornbillwas very big and ashard as a panga ormachete. The bird had fat likethat of a sheep.It was so appetising! It's not easy to find ahornbill withoutplanning.At night, hornbills rooston dry branches.A person eats what helikes.That is why Hiryagaanaeats hornbills.

Kala was staying with his Mom.They lived in a big house. Kalawas a spoiled boy. His Momloved him very much. He goteverything that he wanted. It was a bright, sunny Saturdaymorning. It was the start of theschool holidays. Kala woke uplater than usual. He was excitedand ready to go out in thestreet to play with his friends. Kala's Mom was working in hervegetable garden. She saw herson running out through thedoor. On the kitchen table there wasa big basket full of a variety offruits. Kala called out to hisMom, asking for an apple. "Didyou bath?'' asked his Mom. "Didyou brush your teeth?" sheasked too. "Yes Mom!"answered Kala. "Ok, you canhave one," she agreed. Kala immediately chose the biggest, juiciestapple from the fruit basket. He then dashedoutside towards his favourite playing area. After a few seconds, Mom heardKala screaming. "Aah, Mom!"called Kala. "Mom, my apple is bleeding!" he said. His Mom was busy inthe kitchen and Kala burst through the door. "Why are youmaking such a noise Kala," asked his Mom. "What is it?" "My apple is bleeding, look," he said again.Kala's Mom stopped what she was doing andturned to look at her son. She had a surpriselook on her face. She took the apple from Kala's hand and looked at it."Come here and open your mouth," she order Kala. "Aah,"opened Kala wide. Mom bend a little and peeped into herson's mouth. "It's not the apple that is bleeding, you little, lazy, naughty boy. It's your filthy,yellow rotting teeth!" she shouted. "You do not brush your teeth as told!" she saidwith a cross face. All that Kala felt as he escaped through the door, was hisbehind getting warm from his Mom's dish cloth!

School was about to get over. Just five minutes more, but Cheenu could not wait! He looked outside. There was nobody there. From somewhere close by, a bell jingled. “Cheenu, what are you doing?” asked his teacher.“Sorry Miss,” Cheenu said.“It's just that...” “Paperwala, kaidalu*! Papere kaidalu!” sang Cheenu's father, the Kabadiwala**. Even from outside, he could see Cheenu's grin.*Kaidalu: Paper in Telugu, **Kabadiwala: Junk dealer in Hindi. The school bell rang. Cheenu ran out to his father, grinning from ear to ear. He was the only child in school whose father came to pick him up. Cheenu jumped on to the bandi and dangled his legs. His father pushed the bandi*, shouting, “Paperwala... kaidalu!!!”Cheenu also shouted. They were quite loud! When a watchman stopped them, Cheenu jumped off. He went with his father, carrying an empty sack. All the things they would get today would go into that sack.*Bandi: Cart in Telugu. From this house, newspapers.From that one, newspapers and magazines.From the ground floor, newspapers and magazines and empty bottles. Cheenu ran to the bandi to get another empty sack. They were going up in a lift! Cheenu's eyes grew big and round! From the fifth floor, newspapers and magazines, bottles and boxes and books. While his father was talking to the lady, Cheenu put everything away so that the books were right on top. Where he could look at them! This time, Cheenu had to help his father push the bandi! At home, after they had put everything away, Cheenu's father called him. “I have something for you,” he said.It was the book Cheenu had been looking at all afternoon!“Thank you, Naana*!” Cheenu said. After that, they had to call him three times to come and have dinner!*Naana: Father in Telugu.

This is cow. Cow is cool! By day, it is an ordinary cow. Flying a kite. Kicking a ball. By night, a supercow! Saving lives... ...and fighting crime. But if you close your eyes really tight, and make a wish... Cow might come to visit you too! The end.

Jojo is a young boy. Jojo living with hismother and a milk cow. Jojo loves the cow. Every morning Jojo'smother milks the cow. Jojo takes the milk. Jojo takes the cow tograze Jojo gives the cow thewater. Jojo's mother cooksfood. Jojo enjoys food Jojo plays the ball withhis friend. Jojo reads his book. Jojo says bye to the cowand go to bed to sleep.

“Kallu get up! You'll get late for school again! KALLOOO!”The urgent voice pierced through a lovely dream in which Kallu and his friend Damu were catching a huge fish in the river, and for some strange reason the fish was smiling at them.Kallu pushed a bleary face out of his quilt and protested sleepily, “Shabbo it's too early! I hardly slept!”“No, it isn't,” his brother Shabbo said firmly. “The sun came up long ago. Ammi has already milked the buffalo and we've all had breakfast.”Kallu sat up shivering and looked out of the window and mumbled, “Sun? I don't see any sun.”“That's the mist you idiot! Abbu has already gone to work in the vegetable field and all the school kids of our mohalla went past long ago.”“Everyone's gone?” Kallu about to yawn swallowed it in panic. “Even Munia?” Shabbo nodded silently, his face looking really gloomy.“BAAP RE!”Throwing back the quilt, Kallu struggled out of bed. He couldn't get late for school again! He just couldn't! Two days earlier, Masterji had threatened that one more late entrance in class and the punishment would get really serious. He was even thinking of not promoting him to the next class. And that too after he made Kallu stand in a corner holding his ears for hours and hours.“I have to think up a story right now!” Kallu thought desperately as he hunted for his chappals under the bed. “A really wonderful, heartbreaking, very convincing story...”He rushed at super speed to get ready, like he did every morning. He quickly splashed some freezing water on his face to really open his eyes, no bath of course.Luckily it was winter or his mother would have made him take one. He grabbed a shirt, trousers and sweater and hopped about putting them on. Shoving his feet into his chappals, he looked at his younger brother and panted, “You're so lucky Shabbo! No school for a whole month!”Shabbo sitting by the window, his right leg covered in plaster, said grimly, “Sure! Breaking a leg is great fun. I love sitting here all day, getting so bored I could tear out my hair, while you go off with Damu to play football. Zaroor, I'm having fun!”By the time he finished speaking, Kallu was already out of the house and half way down the lane. Shabbo leaned out of the window to watch his hurrying figure vanish through the swirling mist. Then a huge delighted grin slowly spread across his face.“He's gone!” Shabbo sang out.“You can come out Munia!”His sister Munia who had been hiding behind a cupboard, came out with an even bigger smile on her face. They were laughing so much that Munia got an attack of hiccups.On his way out, Kallu had grabbed a dry chapati from the kitchen and now taking a bite he mumbled to himself, “A story Kallan Mian! A very convincing, brand new story or you're standing in the corner again.”Life was a mystery to Kallu. He liked school, he really did. He enjoyed doing sums and learning science, he loved playing football and singing in the school programmes. But then why, oh why, did he find it so hard to get to school on time? Even Masterji couldn't really understand it. He had suggested sarcastically that Kallu should start sleeping in the school veranda at night, and all the other kids in his class had laughed at Kallu.The problem was that things were getting serious now. If Masterji really did not promote him to class nine, then he was in deep trouble because then his Abbu would make him leave school and make him work in the vegetable fields. Who wanted to pull up spinach and collect carrots and peas when he could go to school? School was a hundred times more fun and he knew that if he could pass the twelfth class board exam, he could find a good job, may be even go to college! Going to college... ah! That was Kallu's biggest dream.What Kallu really wanted to do, was to complete his twelfth class and then learn about computers. Masterji said he had the brains to do that. Last month, he had taken their class to a computer show in the nearby town and they all thought the machines were totally amazing! The salesman had shown him the correct way to use the mouse and how you could go into the Internet. That was absolute magic! Now Kallu and Damu wanted to become magicians with the mouse, going zip-zap across the computer screen.On the way back in the bus, he and Damu had worked out a fantastic plan. Now that the new highway went past Khajuria village, they would open a dhaba-cum-STD booth-cum-computer centre right beside it. Damu, who dreamed of food all the time would run the dhaba, and Kallu would manage the STD booth.Truck drivers would eat at the dhaba and call home from the STD booth and the people from all the nearby villages sending vegetables, wheat and sugarcane to the wholesale market, could check out the latest market prices on the Internet.“Kya baat! ‘Damodar Dhaba and Kallan Computer Centre'.” Damu smiled and then turned to give Kallu an anxious glance, “If only you would get to school on time.”Whizzing past the tea shop, still munching the chapati, Kallu yelled, “Salaam Dharam Chacha!”Dharampal, the chai shop owner, looked up from the boiling kettle and gave a surprised look, “Arrey it's Kallu!” Then his grin widened as his eyebrows shot up, “What's the matter? Did the sun rise from the west today? Where are you going so early in the morning?”“Schooooool!”“Have a pakora first!” And he laughed. “Garam garam Dharam ke pakorey!”Hurrying along Kallu had no time to reply. Dharampal Chacha jokes about everything, he grumbled to himself. Here Kallu was in serious trouble and he was talking about silly pakoras. What was so funny about Kallu getting late for school anyway? It happened every week! Of course, the most disastrous was when he arrived late, day before yesterday. There was a rehearsal for the 26th January programme and when he crept into the school courtyard, they were already singing “Jaiya he!” of the National Anthem. And Kallu was supposed to be there in front with Damu, Munia and Saru leading the singing.So he stood at the back, sang “Jaiya he!” and was trying to sneak off to class when someone grabbed him by the collar and hauled him back.His heart nearly stopped as he looked up at Masterji's grim face.“You are again late for rehearsals, so you're out of the show.” Masterji's voice was cold as ice.“Oh no! Please Masterji!” Kallu had tears in his eyes and these were real tears, not the ones he could bring out at will. He really wanted to be part of the show. “Please... please...” he pleaded desperately. “I promise I won't be late again.”“Fine.” Masterji's voice softened a bit. “I'll let you go this time, but one more late mark and you're out! Get that?” Kallu nodded with a sniff. By then they had reached Kallu's classroom and as Kallu headed to his seat, he said, “Where are you going? Stand in the corner, holding your ears.” His classmates had already begun to giggle when Masterji came up with the final, terrible threat, “May be I won't promote you. Kallan - failed in eighth because of late marks!”And now he was late again. His life was over.A good story... thought Kallu ...a really credible excuse. He had come up with so many in the past, why couldn't he think of a new one today?In his mind's eye, he could see Masterji frown in disbelief looking down at Kallu, as he stood stammering and stuttering away. He was concentrating so hard on his story, he ran straight into a herd of buffaloes.Just my luck, he thought in disgust, dodging the mooing cattle. In a life threatening crisis like this, what do I do? I crash into Badri and his fat buffaloes. Puffing and panting, slithering through the mud, he struggled through. Badri, the mad buffalo man in his huge turban, waved a stick in greeting and smiled behind his bushy moustache.“Aren't you early Kallu? Why don't you help me wash the buffaloes and then go to school?”“Are you joking?”“No. I'll give you five rupees. There's time, you're early.”“Sure, I'm early,” muttered Kallu irritated. “I'm so early it's not even today yet, it's still yesterday. And I'll also feed your buffaloes and dance with them.”“Heh! Heh!” Badri laughed as he slapped a buffalo on the rump. “You're really funny Kallan!”Kallu kept running. The whole village is against me, he thought gloomily, even crazy Badri. Can't they stop joking and teasing a poor boy like me? And then he got busy with the story-cum-excuse problem once again.Ammi was sick and he had to make breakfast? Nope. He'd tried that one at least twice before. It won't work again.The goat had run away? Nah! It didn't work last time. Someone stole his pen? The pen was right there in his school bag.His chappals broke and he had to get them repaired? No way! They were brand new.Going past Damu's house, he saw his best friend and his sister Saru sitting on a charpai in the courtyard, eating breakfast. Ha! They were late too, Kallu thought in triumph, and they are still eating, so they'll come in after me, and hopefully Masterji will be so busy yelling at them, he'll forget about me.Damu looked up, his eyes wide in surprise, “Oye Kallu! Wait for me yar!”“Paranthas, Kallu Bhaiya,” Saru called out. “Gobhi paranthas!”“No time!” Kallu huffed past at full speed. “Meet you in school.”“Theek hai. See you later.” Damu shrugged and went back to eating.Damu and Saru are so lucky, Kallu thought. They lived right next to school. They could even leave home when the school bell rang. As he got to the school gate, Kallu's heart began to thud really fast. Guess who was standing there, stuffing a paan into his mouth. Masterji!! Talk of bad luck!Kallu skated to a stop, and began in a nervous rush, “I'm sorry I'm late Masterji, but today it's not my fault at all! I had to help Shabbo take a bath. You know he's broken his leg and...” he came to a sudden stop because of an amazing sight. Masterji, the scariest human being on earth, was laughing!“Wait!” Masterji held up a hand, while he tried to stop from choking on his paan. “Why are you telling me a new story today?”“What story?” Kallu tried hard to look shocked. “I never tell stories... I mean... but...” Things are getting very strange here, thought Kallu. “Every word is hundred percent true, Masterji!”“You are nearly fifteen minutes early Kallan,” Masterji's smile still lingered.“EARLY?” Kallu froze in shock. “WHAT DO YOU MEAN EARLY?”Masterji pointed to his watch, “See? Seven forty five.”“Munia's not here?”“No one's here yet.” And Masterji laughed again, sending out a spray of paan juice into the air. “No one except you!”Kallu stood still, “You mean I could have slept more? I had time for breakfast?” He nodded to himself. “Now I know. It's Shabbo and Munia. I'll kill them. I really will. Just because Shabbo is bored he's played this trick on me.”"And you wasted a good story too,” Masterji said sympathetically. “Better come in anyway.”“I'll make Shabbo pay for this,” Kallu said through gritted teeth.“I really will.”“What will you do?”“I'll break his other leg!!” said Kallu with a glare.

Long time ago, in a Turkanavillage, people loved to dancethe edonga dance. Every evening they gatheredtogether and danced edonga.The whole region came to knowof this village and its dancers. People from the nearby villagesalso came to dance edonga. A stranger heard of the famousvillage. He sent his messengerto go there before him. When the messenger arrived,the villagers were afraid. Theywondered who the strangerwas, and why he had sent hismessenger. The villagersprepared food and animals tobe slaughtered. The villagers gathered andprepared sacrifices. They satthe whole day until evening.But the stranger did not arrive. In the evening, the villagersdanced as usual until midnight.That night there were manydancers. Everybody in thevillage was excited. Before the dance ended, thestranger arrived. Even thoughhe was a stranger, he lookedjust like the other villagers.They did not notice him at first. When it was the stranger's turnto dance, he joined the men.But his dancing was strangeand different from the others. People were amused and beganto laugh at the stranger. Somedancers fell down laughing.Some sat down, and othersknelt laughing. The stranger did not like peoplelaughing at him. He decided tocurse them. He stoppeddancing and everyone becamea stone in the position theywere in. Some were lying down,others standing, others sittingand kneeling. Then the strangerleft the village. Since then, those stones remained there. At night they canbe heard singing and dancing edonga. That is how we havethe site of Namoratunga.

One morning not so long ago, Raju was on his way to school as usual. He loved school and was walking along happily, looking forward to the day. That was when he saw something very strange: ahead of him were some unusual shapes, heading towards school themselves, schoolbags slung over their shoulders. As he came closer to the shapes, Raju wondered if they were vegetables, the kind he had seen so often in the market. He rubbed his eyes in disbelief. The vegetables looked fresh and healthy. They were marching towards school like little soldiers, one behind the other. Raju walked faster and faster. He was full of curiosity about his new schoolmates, and wanted a closer look at them. At long last, Raju caught up with the shapes marching ahead of him. He stared at their faces, mouth open in surprise. Just as he had guessed, the shapes were really vegetables: potatoes, sweet potatoes, yams, and all the other root vegetables he had seen in the market. "What? Is it really you?" The question popped out of his mouth before he realized it. The vegetables did not reply. They just looked at each other and smiled, amused at his amazement. “Where are you going?” asked Raju in wonder. “Where else?” replied the vegetables, speaking together as one. “We're on our way to your school!”Raju nodded. He didn't know what to say. He continued on his way to school. A little while later, Raju looked back to see if the vegetables were still around. That was when he had his second surprise of the morning. A parade of green leafy vegetables had now joined the root vegetables. They were also marching towards his school, their schoolbags over their shoulders. Now that he was part of the parade himself, Raju's joy knew no bounds. No one he knew had ever gone to school as part of a vegetable parade before! By and by, the parade reached the school. All the children came to the door to watch the strange procession. Their mouths fell open at the sight. Their eyes were round with astonishment. Raju's teacher came forward to welcome them.“Good boy!” she said, patting Raju on the back.Raju was delighted. “Thank you, teacher,” he said happily.The other children clapped and cheered. The teacher left but someone continued to pat him, and quite hard too. Raju opened his eyes. His mother was shaking him awake, saying, “Wake up, Raju! You're going to be late for school.”Raju was fully awake now. “I've been dreaming,” he said to himself. “What a strange dream I've had!” Raju got out of bed, smiling to himself. He would have to hurry if he wanted to get to school on time. Use your imagination and colour this picture anyway you like. Use your imagination and colour this picture anyway you like.

Sinyaire village is surrounded byhills.Many snakes live in the forest onthose hills.The biggest snake was calledUnyalego by the villagers.This snake scared many people.It swallowed whole goats andsheep. One day, sisters Apiyo, Ajoh andAtieno were going to the forest tofetch firewood.The girls' grandmother warned,"Beware of Unyalego the big snake.Do not take anything from theforest except the wood."Only Ajoh did not pay attention toher grandmother. The girls packed milk, bananas,sweet potatoes and water.They took ropes for tying firewoodand a sharp machete for choppingthe wood.Then they left for the forest. On the way, the sisters chattedand laughed.Suddenly, Apiyo, the eldest ofthem, said, "Be quiet. We arecoming to where Unyalego lives." Atieno called to the others, "Look,here are Unyalego's golden teeth.Let us take them."Apiyo reminded them, "Don't forgetgrandmother's warning. We mustnot take anything from the forestexcept firewood." Ajoh said, "I don't trustgrandmother. I think she said thatto stop us having what we want. Iwant the golden teeth."Her sisters were worried. "Ajoh, wewarned you," they said.Ajoh did not care. At that moment Unyalego camelooking for his golden teeth. He wasfurious when he could not find theteeth.Then Unyalego heard the girlschatting and laughing. He hid undera rock next to the road where thegirls would pass on their way back. The sisters were going homecarrying their firewood on theirheads.Suddenly, they heard "Hzzzzzzzz!"There was Unyalego with his mouthwide open, ready to bite. The girlswere terrified. Unyalego asked the girls, "Whotook my golden teeth?" No oneanswered.The snake decided to test the girls."Whoever is innocent, will be ableto sing without mistakes. She willgo home with her firewood.But the guilty one will sing badly.She will be my food for the nextthree days!" Apiyo started to sing with a clearvoice:"Sio mimi, sio mimi aliye na meno,Mwenye meno bado yuko nyuma."Then Atieno sang the song. She alsosang well. Lastly, it was Ajoh's turn. She wasscared. She stepped forward andstarted singing. But her singingsounded terrible and the wordswere wrong.Unyalego shouted, "Can't you singproperly like the others?"The snake knew that Ajoh took hisgolden teeth. Unyalego opened his huge jaws andswallowed Ajoh.Her sisters ran back to the village.They told everyone the story ofwhat happened."I warned her, if only she hadlistened," the girls' grandmothersaid sadly.

It was dawn. In her nest, Kaage the crow woke up and looked around, bored. She cleared her throat and cawed a few times. Bo-ring. Then, suddenly, she pricked up her ears. A koel was singing his sweet song somewhere nearby. For a while, Kaage enjoyed the song. Then she got mad. It just wasn't fair! It was she who had warmed the egg that the koel had hatched from, and now that little bird was singing so much better than her! But she should not be jealous, she told herself. The thing to do was to take singing lessons from the koel. Kaage went looking for the koel, and found her at last. The koel looked at her a little suspiciously, but Kaage was very respectful.“Will you teach me to sing?” Kaage asked humbly.“All right,” said the koel. “But on one condition. You have to be here very early each morning, at daybreak.”Kaage nodded.“Good. Class begins tomorrow,” said the koel, flying off on her errands. Kaage loved her sleep, and never woke up before sunrise. But she had her first singing lesson the next morning at daybreak! She wound up her alarm clock and set it before she went to bed. When the alarm rang, Kaage jumped out of bed, rubbed the sleep out of her eyes, and rushed to class. The koel was waiting impatiently. As soon as Kaage landed on a nearby branch, the music lesson began.“Now, let me hear you sing this,” said the koel. “Kuhoo, kuhoo...”Eagerly, Kaage tried. But all she could say was “Kaa, kaa.”After a while, the koel had had enough. “You are impossible,” she declared. “You will have to find yourself another teacher.” And off she flew. Kaage was very disappointed. Crying bitter tears, she returned to her nest. Days passed. One day, Kaage watched as the sky filled with dark clouds. A cool breeze began to blow and it began to drizzle a little. From her nest, Kaage could see the peacock spread his beautiful tail feathers and begin to dance. She was filled with the urge to dance. 'Maybe the peacock can help,' she thought to herself, and flew off to look for him. “Peacock, will you give me dance lessons?” asked Kaage, when she had found him. “Sure,” said the peacock. “Just do as I do.” Kaage spread her tail feathers. She stepped in time. “That isn't right,” said the peacock. “Watch carefully when I do it.”Kaage tried again, and again, and again, but never got it right. The peacock was furious.“You will never learn to dance!” he scolded and flew away. Kaage was sad. She could not sing, and she could not dance. Maybe she could learn to build a wonderful nest. She went to the sparrow to ask for lessons. But the sparrow wouldn't hear of it. “You? You will never be able to build a nest like mine,” she said, nose in the air, and sent Kaage away. Kaage felt very bad. When would she find something that she was good at? Looking down from her nest, she noticed that there was a pile of rice in the backyard of the house below. She began to caw loudly, inviting her family and friends to the feast. All of them ate until they were stuffed. It was then that a thought struck Kaage. All right, so she couldn't sing or dance or build a beautiful nest. But which other bird, when it found food, invited others to share it? Not the koel, not the peacock, and certainly not the sparrow. No bird, in fact, except other crows like her. Kaage was thrilled that she had discovered this for herself. She was proud that she was part of such a generous family. The other crows saw Kaage looking extremely happy with herself.“What is it, Kaage? Are you getting married soon?” they teased. Kaage blushed. Use your imagination and colour this picture any way YOU like.

One day, all the wild animalsgot together to choose a king.They decided that Lion shouldbe their king. In celebration of the new king,they had a great big party thatwent on for a week. They ate,they drank, they sang and theydanced. When the celebration was over,everyone went home. King Lion went home too.The next day, when Hyenaarrived at Lion's house to visitthe king, he found Lion was sickin bed.Lion said weakly, "I have got aterrible illness. I don't knowwhat to do." Hyena said, "O great king, don'tworry. Hare will know the curefor this illness."The reason he said this was because he wanted to get Hareinto trouble with the king. Hyena knew that Hare would notbe able to cure Lion's illness. Lion cheered up and right awaysent Hyena to call Hare. Hyena ran to call Hare and said,"Let's go to the king because heis very sick. He sent me to callyou."So Hare hurried to Lion's house. Lion said, "I am so happy tosee, my dear Hare. I have calledyou because my life is hangingby a thread. I have an incurableillness. Hyena told me that youhave the cure for this sicknessof mine."And Hare replied, "You are correct, O king. I am able to healthis illness. But the medicine is very difficult to get a holdof." Lion replied, "Don't you worry,Hare, about this medicine beingdifficult to find. The bird thatflies is the one that is caught.Come on now, tell us about thismedicine!" And Hare replied, "O my king,when I say that the medicine ishard to find I don't mean that itis far away. For you to be healedat once, you must make anointment from the heart of ahyena." When Hyena heard that, hestarted trembling all over. Hewas the one who had told Lionthat Hare had the medicine tocure his illness! It was uselessnow to try to contradict Hareabout the medicine. So Hyena ran away.And to this day, hyenas like toeat hares, but always avoidlions.

One sunny morning, the woodcutter of Gura set out to get some firewood. He walked across the plain until he came to the great big olive tree by the river.He climbed the tree and perched himself at the end of the largest branch. Then he made himself comfortable, swung his axe, and began to cut the branch on which he was sitting.The village priest, who was passing by, looked up at the woodcutter and stopped to talk to him. “Brother, what are you doing?” he cried. “That's no way to chop wood!”“What other way is there?” answered the woodcutter. “If you want wood, you must lift your axe and keep going chop-chop-chop!"“But you're sitting at the end of the branch and chopping it in the middle! The branch will break, and when it does, you'll fall down and die,” warned the priest. The woodcutter thought the priest was joking. In any case, he was stubborn and lazy, and didn't want to get up and change his position, so the priest shook his head and walked away. And the woodcutter sat exactly where he was, and went chop-chop-chop, once again. Suddenly, there was a mighty loud c-r-a-c-k, and down crashed the branch, the man and his axe!As he lay on the ground, dazed and bewildered and aching everywhere, the woodcutter remembered his conversation with the priest.“The priest said three things – that the branch would break, that I would fall...and be killed. The priest was right. The branch broke just as he said it would, and I fell too.The priest is indeed a very wise man, so whatever he says must be true. Ah, me! Then I must be dead!”It did not take the woodcutter long to convince himself that he was really dead. So he just closed his eyes and lay on the ground without moving. After a while, his friends came along and called out to him, but the woodcutter lay perfectly still. They shook him and splashed water on his faced. But the woodcutter neither spoke nor moved as he had made up his mind that he was quite dead.They tried to make him stand, but the woodcutter thought to himself, “Surely, a dead man can't stand up!” and promptly fell down again. Now his friends too were convinced that he was dead. So they lifted him up and began to carry him back to the village. “Pick up my axe!” shouted the woodcutter, and they did.Soon they came to a fork in the path and there they stopped. Should they turn right or left? The friends stood there and began to argue long and loud. The woodcutter got so irritated that he sat up and pointed out the way. Then he lay down and shut his eyes again. And his friends carried him to the village saying, “Ah, what a clever man! He always knew the answer to everything. What a pity he's dead!”Soon they reached the woodcutter's house, but found no one at home. So they put him on the floor and began to argue about what they should do next. “Send for my wife, of course!” the woodcutter cut in angrily.“Right away, brother! Who would have thought that a dead man could come up with such a clever idea!” marveled his friends, and they promptly sent for his wife. Sobbing and wailing, the woodcutter's wife appeared, and many of the villagers followed her into the house.“A branch fell on him and killed him,” the friends began to explain.“No! No! No!” exclaimed the woodcutter, “How many times am I to tell you I was sitting on the branch and it broke?”“But my husband is talking! How can he be dead! What happened to him?” cried the woodcutter's wife.“How...when...what.... Woman, it's not respectful to ask the dead all those questions,” said the friends.“I tell you he isn't dead at all,” said the woodcutter's wife. “Use your brains!”The woodcutter was getting irritated now. “The wise priest told me the branch would break, and I would surely fall down and die. The branch broke and I fell. The priest was speaking the truth. So I must be dead.” “Nonsense! In any case, the priest didn't see you after you fell, so...” began his wife.“Nag! Nag! Nag!” said the woodcutter getting up from the ground in disgust. He picked up his axe and went out of the house.“Where are you going?” asked his wife.“To get some firewood so that you can cook dinner,” he said, walking away.“What a fine man!” murmured his friends. “Even when he's dead he doesn't forget his duty!”* * *And that is why it is often said, “A fool always finds one still more foolish to admire him!” RAFT CRAFTWhat do you think the woodcutter of Gura was chopping wood for? Perhaps to light a fire and cook his food. What other uses of wood can you think of?Do you know that people sail across lakes and rivers in rafts made with logs of wood tied together? How about making your own toy raft? It's easy – grab some sticks or twigs... and get, set, and sail away! You need:A. 11 straight twigs or sticks 16 cm long. (They should be about as thick as your little finger)B. StringC. Thick paper cut into a triangle 8 cm in height for the sail. (You could also cut out a colourful picture from a magazine cover or paint your own picture for the sail.) TO MAKE THE RAFT1. Take 8 sticks and place them side by side.2. Place a stick across each end of the raft as shown. Tie the sticks together with the string to secure your raft.3. Take another stick (this will be your mast) and poke it through the sail as shown. Be careful not to tear the sail when yo do this.4. Push the lower end of the sail (the mast, that is) down the middle of the raft, between the 4th and 5th sticks. The mast should stay up straight.Now find a pool or a puddle or even a bucket of water, and set your raft to s-a-i-l. Enjoy!

Graça was about to be born in asmall village in Mozambique. Thecountry was poor and the peopledid not yet rule themselves.Children didn't have good schoolsand many couldn't read. Graça'smother dreamed of giving herchildren better opportunities. Butwithout education there was littlehope. Baby Graça would be the sixthchild. But with this joyous eventthere was great sadness. Theirbeloved father was dying. Hedreamed that his youngestdaughter would go to a goodschool. He knew that educationwould give her opportunities henever had. His family promised tomake their dad's dream come true. Just weeks after their dad died, thenew baby was born. She was givena name to match the beauty andblessing that she was – Graça. Asthe years passed, Graça broughtmuch joy to her family and theykept the promise made to theirfather. Graça would have a goodeducation. Graça worked hard at school and asa teenager she received a gift thatwould change her life. It was ascholarship to attend a rich cityschool.She dreamed of becoming a teacherand using her education to educateothers. She wanted the children ofher beloved Mozambique to knowreading and learning. She dreamedof a time when all children would goto school. Graça did her best in that cityschool and years later she wasblessed again. It was anotherscholarship to attend a university infaraway Portugal. She met newfriends, learned new languages andread a bounty of books. Sherealised her dream of becoming ateacher.All this made Graça very happy.There was only one thing that stillmade her sad... Back at home people were still notfree. But now Graça had aneducation, skills, and hope. She alsohad friends who felt as she didabout children's right to learn. Shewould use her knowledge and workwith her friends. Together theywould bring change to Mozambique. Finally with the help of all herfriends, Mozambique was free! The man chosen to lead the countrywas Graça's friend, Samora Machel.They fell in love and got married. Graça was given the important jobof making sure that all children inMozambique got a good education.It was a hard job because therewere so many children inMozambique who couldn't read. Sheknew that they needed educationand wanted to make real change inher country. She started withprimary schools and getting boysand girls into classrooms. Literacywas her focus and putting booksinto children's hands. Graça and Samora had twochildren. They shared a dream tocreate good lives for their ownfamily and for the Mozambicanpeople. They were happy andhopeful.Then one terrible day, Samora diedin an aeroplane crash. Graça mourned Samora for manyyears, but she found love again.She met a man who had also spenthis life dreaming of bringingfreedom, hope and education to hispeople.Graça married Nelson Mandela andtogether they worked to helpAfrica's children.

In Kaohsiung in southern Taiwan, there is a mountain called Ban Pin Shan, meaning ‘one half'. Strange name for an ordinary mountain, you might think.But take one look at it and you will see why it is called so. It looks like one half of the mountain is missing! Almost as if someone has cut off the top neatly, with a big sword. Before you start to wonder how it got its name, let me tell you the legend behind it.Long, long ago, when Ban Pin Shan was still a whole mountain, there used to be a village near it. One day, a very old man came to the village carrying a huge pot on his head.His hair was white as snow, and so was his beard. His face was wrinkled like the old, worn-out clothes he wore. He set the pot down in the village square and opened the lid. The sweet smell of fresh dumplings filled the air.“Hot dumplings! Fresh, hot dumplings!” he yelled. “One for one cent, two for two cents and three, for FREE!”Villagers passing by became curious and crowded around this foolish man who was giving away dumplings that looked inviting and smelt absolutely delicious.“One for one cent, two for two cents and three, for FREE!” yelled the old man again. “Red beans and sesame, and three for free.”The villagers who had gathered around the old man began whispering to each other. “Must be a trick! Three dumplings for free? How can that be?” they said.“The most delicious ones, Sir,” said the old man as he handed the first one to Big-Head Wang.It was as big as an egg. Big-Head Wang popped it into his mouth and went mmmm.... Everyone could see that he was really enjoying the dumpling.By the time he finished the second one, his stomach was full. But he looked at the old man and said, “If I eat the third one, I don't have to pay. It is not a lie, right?” He wanted to make sure the old man had meant what he said.“Three for free and that it will be!” said the old man, handing Big-Head Wang the third dumpling, which he promptly stuffed into his mouth. If he could eat it, he wouldn't have to pay anything. The old man kept his word and Big-Head Wang went away happy, his stomach full to bursting.Soon, everyone wanted three dumplings each. Not a single villager ordered one or two dumplings; everyone wanted only three for free. In a while, the whole pot was wiped clean. Some of the villagers were disappointed as the old man prepared to leave.“My, my, don't all of you have good appetites,” the old man said as he heaved the empty pot over his head and walked away.Suddenly, Eagle-Eye Chan, who had just gulped down three free dumplings, cried out, “Look! A part of the mountain is missing!”“Nonsense!” said the villagers. “Too many dumplings in your tummy have made you think funny!” All of them laughed at Eagle-Eye Chan, who kept staring at the mountain long after the villagers had left.That evening, everyone was talking about the old man and his delicious dumplings. “He must be a really stupid man to give away three for free!” they said, laughing. “Let's hope he comes every day.”The next morning, the old man arrived again, carrying his pot of dumplings. He set the pot down again in the village square.“One for one cent, two for two cents and three, for FREE!” he yelled. “Peanuts and sesame, and three for free.”This time, the pot was emptied an hour earlier than the previous day. The villagers had eaten up all the dumplings, three apiece. And for free. Quietly, the old man heaved the pot over his head and left, smiling a strange smile.On the third day, the old man came again. This time, the villagers were waiting for the stupid old man to arrive. Soon, they were trying to eat as many dumplings as possible, for free.Suddenly, a voice said, “Mister, can I have one dumpling, please?”Everyone froze! Their mouths hung open with bits of dumpling falling out, as they tried to catch sight of whoever had uttered the words. Now, which idiot would want to pay for ONE dumpling when he could have THREE for FREE? There was pin-drop silence. They saw a young man with a soft face standing in the middle of the crowd, a single cent in his outstretched hand.The old man spoke. “Young man, didn't you hear me?” he said. “One for one cent, two for two cents and three, for FREE!”“Yes, I did,” said the young man in a sincere voice. “But I've seen how you've carried this huge pot every day, giving away your dumplings, three for free.You have not made any money in the last few days and I feel sorry for you. I want to help, but I have only enough money to pay for one dumpling.”When the villagers heard the young man, their hearts were filled with shame. They hung their heads in silence.The old man stepped towards the young man and embraced him. “Ha! At last I've found you!” he cried. “I am the mountain god and I choose you to be my pupil. I will teach you all the magic that I know,” he said, as tears flowed down his old, wrinkled face.The villagers quickly realized that the mountain god had disguised himself as this old man to test them. And to find a kind-hearted soul who could become his pupil.Then, the mountain god revealed to the utter shock of everyone present that the dumplings they had been eating weren't real dumplings.They were made from the mud that he had dug out from the mountain. As soon as the villagers heard this, they ran to see the leftover dumplings in the pot. But all they saw was a pot full of mud! And when they turned to look at the mountain, they couldn't believe their eyes! There was only half of it left standing! Just as Eagle-Eye Chan had said. But they had been too greedy to listen....Soon, the mountain god took his young disciple with him to the mountain to teach him the magic of the gods. As for the villagers, their hearts were filled with remorse and they cursed themselves for being so greedy. They named the mountain Ban Pin Sghan – a name that stands to this day – and vowed to be less greedy.Now tell me, if an old man came to your town selling delicious dumplings, “One for one cent, two for two cents and three, for FREE!” – how many would you buy? PAPER PIZZAZZ!Did you notice the lovely hats that the characters in the story are wearing? These traditional hats are worn by farmers while working in the fields to protect themselves from the sun. Would you like to have one for your self? Then here's one you can make easily.YOU NEED:A. sheet of chart paper (about the size of a newspaper), B. Scissors, C. Glue,D. Two pieces of string HOW TO MAKE THE PAPER HAT:1. Cut out a large circle from the chart paper.2. Draw a ‘V' on the circle as shown. Cut it out.3. Overlap the cut edge (marked ‘A') over the other (marked ‘B') as shown. Stick them together. You will now have a conical hat.4. Make two holes in the hat and tie the strings to them as shown.5. There! Your hat is now ready to protect you from the sun!Decorate your hat with fancy designs.

Once upon a time, there was a boy called Demane.He had a twin sister called Demazane. When their mother and father died, they went to stay with their uncle.But they were badly treated.They were beaten with long sticks, and given thin porridge only once a day for food.So they ran away. They found a cave to live in. They were scared because they had heard that there were cannibals living in the hills.So they made a strong door to cover the entrance, with only two holes to let in air and light.Demane warned his sister, "Stay in the cave while I am out hunting, and don't cook any meat. Cannibals love the smell of cooking meat." Each evening Demane brought back something he had killed – a hare or some birds or a small buck.As he came to the cave, he sang, "Demazane, Demazane, child of my mother, open this cave to me. The swallows can enter it. It has two holes." Demazane found it very boring to stay in the cave all day.So one day, when her brother had gone, she went out to explore.She found a stream to play in, and some trees to climb.She felt free and happy. "Perhaps," she thought, "there are no cannibals. Perhaps Uncle said there were cannibals just to frighten us." The next day she felt bold enough to make a fire to warm herself.But she made it inside the cave with the door firmly shut – just to be on the safe side. "I'm sure it won't matter if I put a little meat on the fire. It will be so good to have a cooked meal." When her brother came home he sang as usual,"Demazane, Demazane, child of my mother, open this cave to me.  The swallows can enter it. It has two holes."She opened the door and let him in.When he saw the cooked meat, Demane asked, "How did you do this without a fire?" "I dried the meat in the sun outside the cave," Demazane replied quickly.Demane was too tired to argue, and they sat down to enjoy the meal together. The next day, she made a fire and cooked meat again.She had just finished when a voice sang outside the door, "Demazane, Demazane, child of my mother, open this cave to me. The swallows can enter it. It has two holes."But the voice did not sound like her brother's.Demazane said, "No. You are not my brother. Your voice is not like his."She felt safe in the cave. A little while later, someone was singing outside the cave again, "Do let me in, my sister.""Demazane, Demazane, child of my mother, open this cave to me. The swallows can enter it. It has two holes."The voice sounded just like her brother's, so she opened the door. A huge hairy man filled the opening of the cave.He grabbed Demazane before she could run away.Demazane just had time to pick up some ashes from the fire.As she was being carried away, she dropped some ashes here and there along the path. That day, all Demane had managed to trap was a hive full of bees. He carried them in a thick bag slung over his shoulder.When he came to the cave, he found the door open and his sister gone. But there were ashes pointing the way into the woods.He followed the ash along the path until he saw a fire in the distance. Near the fire was a huge hairy man sitting with a large bag next to him.Demane walked up to the man, pretending to limp, "Please, father, can you help me? I've hurt my leg. I need some water."The man replied, "I'll get you some water, if you will promise not to touch my bag." And he put the bag carefully in his hut. But when he had gone, Demane cut the string of the bag, and out climbed his sister.Demane replaced the bag with his own bag full of bees.Brother and sister hid and waited to see what would happen. When the man came with the water, his son and daughter came with him.He said to his daughter, "There is something nice in the bag in our hut. Go! Bring it!"She opened the bag a little to see what it was, but the bees stung her hand, and she called out, "It is biting." "Go and help her!" he shouted to his son. But the result was the same. "Don't treat me like a fool," he shouted, and stormed into the hut. He closed the door and opened the bag himself.The angry bees swarmed out and stung his head, his nose, his eyes. Blinded, he jumped about, howling with pain. Then he ran and fell headlong into a pond, where his head stuck fast in the mud.He turned into a piece of wood like the stump of a tree. Just right for a bee hive.For a long time after that, Demane and Demazane ate delicious honey from that hive.

The dog wants to catch the bird. Dog goes to man for help.Please help me catch the bird. Man swells up in anger. Why do you want to catch the poor bird? I am going to teach you a lesson. I am going to teach you a lesson. GOTCHA!!! Understood? No more chasing birds.Good Dog.

Once upon a time, there was an oldwoman who loved her grandsonvery much.She gave him an egg as a gift.She said, "From this egg you will getbride wealth for your marriagewhen you are of age."And the boy went on his way. First he met some blackberrygatherers who asked him for theegg.They used it to shoot at the berriesand it broke. The boy cried,"Ei...Ei...Ei! You have caused troublefor me!The egg was not mine.It belonged to my grandmother.And grandmother didn't give it tome for nothing.She gave it to me to get bridewealth." So the berry gatherers gave him thestick they used to bring down theberries.And the boy walked on. Next the boy met some builderswho asked him for his stick.They used it to build a house and itbroke into pieces. The boy cried,"Hee...Hee...Hee! You have causedtrouble for me! The stick was notmine, it belonged to the berrygatherers.And they didn't give it to me fornothing.They gave it to me in place of myegg.The egg was not mine.It belonged to my grandmother.And grandmother didn't give it tome for nothing,She gave it to me to get bridewealth." So the builders gave him a bundleof grass for thatching.And the boy walked on. Next the boy found a herdsman whoasked for the boy's bundle of grass.The herdsman gave it to the cowand the cow ate it all up. The boy cried, "E...E...E! You havecaused trouble for me! The grasswas not mine. It belonged to thebuilders.The builders did not give it to mefor nothing. They broke my stick.The stick was not mine. It belongedto the berry gatherers.And they didn't give it to me fornothing.They gave it to me in place of myegg.The egg was not mine. It belongedto my grandmother.And grandmother did not give it tome for nothing.She gave it to me to get bridewealth." So the herdsman gave the boy hiscow.And the boy walked on. While on his way home, the boycame across a marriagecelebration.The bride's family asked him for hiscow.He gave it to them.And they slaughtered it and ate itall. The boy cried, "Ei...Ei...Ei! You havecaused trouble for me! The cow wasnot mine. It belonged to theherdsman.The herdsman didn't give it to mefor nothing.He gave it to me in place of mybundle of grass.The grass was not mine. It belongedto the builders.The builders didn't give it to me fornothing. They broke my stick.The stick was not mine. It belongedto the berry gatherers.They didn't give it to me fornothing. They gave it to me in placeof my egg.The egg was not mine. It belongedto my grandmother.And grandmother didn't give it tome for nothing,She gave it to me to get bridewealth." Then the bride's family said, "Wehave nothing left to pay you. But letus give you the bride."And so, the saying came to passthat, "What goes round comesaround!"

“Meera, I went to your school today!” Amma said one day.“Really?” Meera said.“And the gate was wide open, and the watchman was missing!”“Oh! He was in our classroom, to see why our teacher had screamed!”“And why did your teacher scream?” Amma asked. “Because Rohan began crying!” “And why did Rohan cry?” Amma wanted to know.“Because the snake he had brought back from the zoo had eaten his mouse! And then the teacher screamed and the watchman came running!”“But I went to your classroom, and there was nobody there!” said Amma. “We were all hiding in the Staff Room,” Meera said.“Because Rohan's snake was in our classroom!”“But Meera, when I went to the Staff Room, I didn't see anyone there!” “That is because we had all run away to the Principal's Room,” Meera said.“Because Rohan said the snake was following us!”“But when I went to the Principal's Room, it was empty!” Amma said. “We couldn't stay there,” Meera said, “because Rohan's snake was looking for him. We climbed up to the terrace and stayed there till the bell rang!”“And I waited and waited in your school, all alone!” Amma said. “Not all alone, Amma, you had the snake for company!”“The snake!” Amma said, sitting down with a thump on a chair.

Once upon a time, there was a little village.In the little village was a little stream. In the stream, several families of frogs, tortoises, and fish lived happily in each other's company. The fish family was the largest of them all. The fish family was also the most respected. The reason? A big fat radio that occupied pride of place in their underwater home. Grandpa Fish was the head of the fish family. He was obeyed in most things, not just by the younger fish but also by the frog and tortoise families. But there was one thing over which he simply had no control: the family radio. Never did Grandpa Fish get a chance to listen to the news. The younger fish, frogs, and tortoises simply adored film music, and would not move from the radio's side as long as it was playing. By the time he had convinced the younger ones to let him listen to the news, it was usually too late. Most often, all Grandpa Fish heard was the newscaster saying, “And that is the end of the news...”It was very annoying. One day, Grandpa managed to convince the younger ones a little earlier than usual. Rushing to the radio, he tuned in to the news, and heard the newscaster say, “And before we end, the headlines once again...”The Breaking News on the River Radio network that morning was very frightening. “A group of humans are using a new technique to capture the maximum number of fish possible!” said the newscaster. “They are poisoning the water of the rivers one by one! When the fish die, the humans just trap them all in their nets and take them away!They could be coming to your river very soon!" Grandpa Fish was stunned. He quickly relayed the information to the rest of the fish and to the other river creatures. Numb with fear, everyone sat quietly thinking about the next course of action. No one wanted to listen to film music now. Meanwhile, the daughter of the village headman came to the river to fetch some water. Grandpa Fish and the headman had been friends for a long time. Swimming quickly to the surface, Grandpa Fish informed the girl that there was an emergency. "Please tell your father to come and see me immediately," he said anxiously. The headman came at once. Grandpa Fish first made sure his guest was comfortable and even offered him a cup of coffee. Only then did he bring up the subject of the frightening news he had heard on the radio. Now the headman was worried too. Thinking quickly, he came up with a plan to make sure the river in his village, and all the creatures in it, would be safe. The headman quickly reassured the old fish and his clan.“Don't worry, Grandpa Fish,” he said. “I will see to it that you and your fellow creatures will be safe from those terrible human beings.” The younger fish, frogs, and tortoises realized what a huge disaster it would have been had Grandpa Fish not listened to the news on the River Radio network that day. Ashamed of their earlier behaviour, they resolved to mend their ways in the future. Use your imagination and colour this picture any way YOU like. Use your imagination and colour this picture any way YOU like.

I read with friends. I learn to writenumbers. I learn to write letters. I play with friends. I sing at school. I can dance too. I also go to garden withthe teacher and friends. Teacher sings for us alullaby. What do you do at yourschool?

I like to read. Who can I read to? My sister is asleep. Who can I read to? My mother and grandmother are busy. Who can I read to? My father and grandfather are busy. Who can I read to? I can read to myself!

A cloud rolled along merrily in the sky. The peacock said, “Why don't you rain? I will dance for you.” The fish said, "Please rain. I need more water." The farmer said, “Please rain. I'll plant seeds for the next crop.” Raju said, “If you rain, I'll sail paper boats.” The cloud rained in a shower of shimmering drops. The peacock spread its pretty feathers and danced. The pond filled up. The fish was happy. The farmer started planting seeds. Splish! Splash! Splosh! Raju and his friends had a wonderful time in the puddles. The cloud filled everybody's heart with joy. It moved on. All the children waved goodbye.

That is a cradle hanging from the Neem tree. You know what is in there? Devi's little sister! Yes, she is crying. You mean you can hear it as well? Devi certainly can. And she is sick of it! Devi has finally stopped playing hopscotch, and she has taken her sister out. Oops! The cradle is flying! Right over the tree! It's only an old sari, what do you expect? That is Krishna, Devi's friend. He thinks throwing small rocks at the sari will bring it down. The little girl in the orange skirt is Leela. She wants Devi to use a long stick to untangle the sari. All the kids are laughing at her.“If it was that easy, do you think WE wouldn't have thought of it?” they ask. Salia is taking running jumps at the sari. She is quite tall, and her fingers just touch the cloth. Now ALL the children are lining up for jumps! Devi's sister is quite happy. She is smiling and chewing on some grass she has found. Oh, no, she isn't. Devi has taken it from her. Raju has organised all the children, big ones first, small ones later. Oh, gosh!Do you think he's going to make them climb on top of each other?Yes! and they are going to manage it! No, they are not! What now? That is Devi's father at the top of the road! Quick! Think of something!Leela is tottering under the long pole she has found. It's about to fall! No, it isn't. Krishna has taken it from her. Raju is helping too. This time they just might get it down! Quick! Put the baby in the cradle before Devi's father sees!In any case, it is nice to have friends to play hopscotch with. Quick! Put the baby in the cradle before Devi's father sees!In any case, it is nice to have friends to play hopscotch with.

Long time ago there lived an orphanboy called Palinyang'.Palinyang's parents were killed byrobbers when he was only sixmonths old.As the villagers mourned the deathof Palinyang's parents, theywondered what would become ofPalinyang'. After the burial, Sausau, the villageheadman called a meeting.Sausau was respected and feared atthe same time because of the wayhe dressed and talked. His hair waslong and fell on his back.It was believed that Sausau lived inthe forest long before trees werecut down and houses were built. During the meeting, Lokeyokoni, avery rich villager, adoptedPalinyang'.Lokeyokoni had many sons anddaughters. The daughters helpedtheir mother with household choreswhile the sons went out to grazetheir father's big herd of cattle. Palinyang' grew up in this familyand was very happy.He was loved and he lovedeverybody.He enjoyed grazing the animals inthe fields. Palinyang' loved one particular cowso much that he gave it the nameAlinyang'.Alinyang' was the oldest cow in thewhole herd. For this reason, theowner valued it a lot. One day when the boys were outgrazing the animals, it startedraining and they had to shelterunder a tree.The rain fell for many hours until itwas dark.When it eventually stopped raining,the boys went to collect the animalsand take them home but there wereno animals to be seen. They were afraid of what theirfather would do to them if theyarrived home without the animals.When they could not trace thecattle, two boys decided to go totheir uncle's home while two otherswent to their aunt's place.Palinyang' decided to continuelooking for the animals till he foundthem. He had no uncle or aunt torun to. Palinyang' followed all the tracksthat he knew while singing thename of his favourite cow.This is how the song went:Piii pi Alinyang'!Piii pi Alinyang'!Chaka akula chi!Chaka orete chi! Palinyang' went on singing the songthroughout the night.He stepped on the cow dung but itwas cold.He then stepped on the urine but itwas cold as well. Palinyang' did notgive up. At dawn, Palinyang' reached a smallvillage and found the animals in thecare of the village headman. Hepleaded with the headman to lethim lead the animals home, but theheadman refused. Frustrated, Palinyang' startedsinging his song as he turned to gohome.It was then that Alinyang', theoldest cow, heard Palinyang'.Alinyang raised her ears and startedfollowing Palinyang'.All the animals broke from theenclosure and followed Palinyang.He lead them home. When they reached home, villagers were waitingbecause they had heard Palinyang's voice from far.They all sang songs praising Palinyang'.Lokeyokoni thanked Palinyang' and bought him a redbag for carrying books to school.And that is how Palinyang' started going to school.

This is Khalai. She is seven years old. Her name means 'the good one' in her language, Lubukusu. Khalai wakes up and talks to the orange tree. "Please orange tree, grow big and give us lots of ripe oranges." Khalai walks to school. On the way she talks to the grass. "Please grass, grow greener and don't dry up." Khalai passes wild flowers. "Please flowers, keep blooming so I can put you in my hair." At school, Khalai talks to the tree in the middle of the compound. "Please tree, put out big branches so we can read under your shade." Khalai talks to the hedge around her school. "Please grow strong and stop bad people from coming in." When Khalai returns home from school, she visits the orange tree. "Are your oranges ripe yet?" asks Khalai. "The oranges are still green," sighs Khalai. "I will see you tomorrow orange tree," says Khalai. "Perhaps then you will have a ripe orange for me!"

Once upon a time, in a little village on the banks of the Irrawaddy river, there lived a young woman called Thuza. She was very happily married to handsome young Theingi. But there was one problem that nagged Thuza – her husband believed he was an alchemist and would spend all his time dreaming about ways to turn dirt into gold.All day, and for days on end, Theingi spent his time in experiments, searching for a breakthrough. Soon, all their money was over, and young Thuza had to struggle to buy food for the two of them. She became very worried. “You should find a job soon,” she pleaded with her husband. “We cannot continue like this!”But Theingi wouldn't listen. “I'm on the verge of a breakthrough! Why do I have to work when we will be rich beyond our wildest dreams? We will soon be able to turn all the dirt we find into gold!”Disheartened, Thuza approached her father, wise old Thet, for a solution. Thet was surprised when he heard that his son-in-law was an alchemist. He thought for a while and asked to see Theingi. Thuza returned home happily that day, for she knew her wise father would have a solution. The next day, Theingi arrived at his father-in-law's house, fully prepared for a scolding. He was taken by surprise when Thet took him aside and whispered, “When I was young like you, I was an alchemist too!”The two of them spent the whole afternoon discussing Theingi's work. Finally, the old man stood up and said, “Why Theingi, you've done everything exactly like I did when I was your age! You are definitely on the verge of a breakthrough! Congratulations! But you seem to be lacking one very important ingredient in your experiments. You will need this when you finally turn dirt to gold. Only recently did I discover this. But I am too old for this task. It requires enormous effort...”“Then let me do it for you, Father!” cried Theingi. He was really excited. All his efforts would pay off at last. “Tell me what the ingredient is!”“Good, you are excited!” said Thet. He leaned closer and whispered, “Son, the secret ingredient is a silver powder that is found only on banana leaves. You will have to plant the bananas yourself and cast certain spells on them. Then, as the plants grow, the powder on the leaves will gain magical powers.” “How much of this powder will we need, Father?” asked Theingi excitedly.“A kilo,” replied Thet.“A kilo!” cried Theingi. “That would require hundreds of banana plants!”“I'm afraid so, Son,” said the old man. “That is why I can't complete the task myself...”“Don't lose heart, Father!” said Theingi. “I shall!”Later that evening, the old man taught his son-in-law the magic spells and loaned him the money to start the work.The very next day, Theingi bought a small field near his home and cleared it. Just as he had been instructed, he dug the ground himself and planted the saplings after carefully chanting the magic spells. Every day he went to the field and examined the saplings. He kept the weeds and pests away diligently. When the plants grew and bore fruit, he carefully collected the silver powder from the leaves and kept it safely in a box. There was hardly any powder on each leaf, so Theingi had to buy more land and grow more bananas. But he was determined to do what was needed. It took him several years, but at the end of it all, he had managed to collect enough of the magic powder. He rushed to his father-in-law, excited as never before. He would soon be able to make gold from mere dirt!“Father, finally... here is the kilo of magic powder!” he cried.The old man was filled with joy. “Wonderful!'' he said. “Wonderful! You've done well, Theingi. I'm proud of you. Now I will show you how to turn dirt into gold. But first, let's get Thuza. We need her help.” Theingi was a little puzzled, but without losing any time, he ran to his wife and was soon back with her.“Thuza,” asked the old man, “what did you do with the bananas when your husband was collecting the powder?”“Why, I sold them, Father,” replied Thuza. “That's how we earned a living.”“Then you must have been able to save some money too. Theingi grew more than enough bananas...” the old man continued.“Yes, I did,” replied Thuza.“Can we see it?” asked Thet.“Of course, I have kept it safely at home,” beamed Thuza.The three of them went to Theingi's house where Thuza produced several bags from the loft where she had kept them safely. Thet opened one of the bags, peered inside, and smiled. He then emptied one of the bags on the table. Gold coins tinkled as they fell in a huge, shiny heap. Then he went to the field and came back with a handful of dirt, which he placed next to the heap of gold. “You see, Theingi,” he said, turning to his son-in-law, “you have changed dirt into gold!”Never after that day did Theingi collect any more magic powder from the leaves. But he continued to grow bananas. His “alchemist” father-in-law had taught him the best way to turn dirt into gold, after all. He didn't need the magic powder any more. BANANAGIC!After Theingi's magic powder from bananas, how about surprising your friends with some magical bananas?! Tell them about a new variety that you have just discovered – one that grows in slices!MAKE YOUR OWN MAGICAL BANANASYOU'LL NEED:A few ripe bananasA toothpick or sewing needle HOW TO MAKE IT:1. Push the toothpick into the banana somewhere along the seam.2. Without taking it out, carefully rotate the toothpick left and right inside the banana. You should cut all the way through the fruit, but not through the peel, mind you. Also, try and keep the toothpick hole as small as possible – the smaller, the lesser it will be visible. 3. Remove the toothpick and repeat the above step at another spot on the banana, say after an inch. Keep making internal one-inch slices until you have at least five or six. Do these two steps with all the bananas you have.That's it – your magic bananas are ready to eat. Offer the “new variety” to your friends while telling them a big story about how you discovered them in the field nearby. When your friends peel the banana, imagine the look on their faces when they find that it is already sliced? While inside the skin! Isn't that some yummy banana magic?

A hut is made using poles, grassand mud. A hut has got one door and twowindows. Huts are very good to stay induring dry seasons because theyare cool. Huts are also good to stay in Whenit is raining because you do nothear noise like on iron sheets. Huts are very easy to make . Every village in Uganda has gothuts. BUT our village Nandahabi has gotthe most beautiful huts.

It was a very special day and so Raza was wearing his best clothes. Today, he was going to meet someone very important – His Majesty Jalaluddin Akbar, the great Mughal king!Raza's father Rahmat Khan was an important man too. He was the royal tailor to the king, and he stitched all his angarakhas – the loose coats that the king wore over his tight churidar pyjamas.This morning they were going to the palace in Fatehpur Sikri with the angarakhas the king had ordered for summer. The king was very fussy about his clothes and it was very hard to please him.Rahmat Khan had worked hard to make the angarakhas – cutting and stitching late into the night. Raza had helped too – putting in tiny stitches using the finest needle and the best silken thread.The spring sun shone brightly, the flowers smiled, and the pigeons cooed happily as the two of them walked to the fortress of Fatehpur Sikri. Two soldiers holding spears stood guarding the gate.“I'm Rahmat Khan,” Raza's father said, “I'm the angarakha maker to His Majesty and I've brought new sets for him.”“Is His Majesty expecting you?” the guard with big moustaches asked.“Ji huzoor. He chose the designs himself.”“Wait here,” the guard turned to go inside, “I'll call the Royal Steward.” After a while the guard returned with another man. Rahmat bowed to him. “I've brought the summer clothes, Dhaniji,” he said.“Good! Come with me. His Majesty is still in his sleeping chamber. He'll see you before he leaves for the royal court.”As they walked in, Raza whispered, “Who is he, Abbu?”“Dhani Singh. He works in the Khwabgah.”“Khwabgah?”“The king's personal palace, where he has his sitting room and bedroom.”It was a long walk. Raza looked around, his eyes wide with wonder. The Mughal palaces were so beautiful! All made of red sandstone with slim carved pillars and curving arches.In between were gardens filled with flowers, lily pools and sparkling fountains. Raza thought he was in heaven.As they waited at the door of the king's bedroom, Raza studied Dhani Singh. Being a tailor's son, he noticed the clothes first.Dhani Singh was wearing a cotton angarakha in a red and white flowery print over white churidars. His nagra shoes had pointed toes that curved inward. He had tied a narrow cloth belt, a patka, at his waist.What Raza liked most was his bright red turban, printed with a design in white and yellow squares and dots. “Your turban is very nice, Dhaniji,” he said, “that's a really pretty design!”“Thank you! I come from the land of the Rajputs and... this design, called bandhani, is from my homeland.”As they entered the room, Raza's heart was thudding. Sunlight poured in through the arched doorways, lighting up the thick silken Persian carpet woven in jewelled colours. The room was furnished with a beautifully carved bed and exquisite chairs. There were silk and gold cushions on the low bed. Even the curtains were made of silk!Raza bowed and then looked at his king. Akbar was choosing jewellery from a box held before him by a servant.He was not very tall but he had the broad shoulders of a sword-fighter. He had large, slightly slanted eyes, a drooping moustache, and a small mole above his lips.Hearing them enter, Akbar turned and smiled, “Ah Rahmat! You've brought the angarakhas? And who is this boy with you?”“My son Raza, huzoor.”“And can you stitch too, Raza?”“I'm learning, huzoor,” Raza replied nervously, “but I still make mistakes in cutting the cloth.”“You'll learn. Your father will teach you,” Akbar said gently.Rahmat opened the bundle and laid out the angarakhas on the bed. They were made of the finest muslin and covered with delicate embroidery. All of them were in light summery colours – cream, lemon, pale blue, green and a sparkling white. Raza knew the king's favourite colour was white.Rahmat helped Akbar put on a white angarakha. Then Dhani Singh brought a large mirror and held it before the king.“I like the embroidery... and it fits well too,” Akbar said, looking pleased. “Now tie a patka. Let's see how it looks.”Rahmat took out a handful of belts and tied a light blue one around Akbar's waist, letting the fringed ends hang in front.“No...” said Akbar moodily, “this is too pale... I want something brighter.”Raza and his father then tried one patka after another – green and yellow, orange and purple, but nothing pleased Akbar.“I don't like any of the colours, Rahmat!” Akbar said, frowning impatiently. Raza saw that his father was beginning to look worried. Oh no! If His Majesty did not like the patkas, would he send all the clothes back? “I have to do something fast!” Raza thought.He looked around and said suddenly, “Huzoor, would you like to try a bright red one with a white and yellow design?”“What kind of red?” Akbar boomed. “Show me!”Raza pointed to Dhani Singh's turban, “That red?”“Hmmm...” Akbar stared thoughtfully at Dhani Singh's moustached face and said, “Let me give it a try.” In a flash, Raza had taken off Dhani Singh's turban, unrolled it and tied it around Akbar's waist. He waited with bated breath while Akbar studied his reflection in the mirror. He noticed Dhani Singh grinning widely – he must have been amused to see the king wearing his turban as a belt!“I like the colour... and a new design too!” Akbar said finally.“Bandhani, huzoor... from the land of the Rajputs,” said Raza promptly.“Aha! Rajput like my queen, Jodh Bai!” Akbar began to smile. “Dhani, pay Rahmat for the angarakhas and patkas. I'll take them all!”“Huzoor,” asked Raza cautiously, “Dhaniji needs a turban. We've taken the one he was wearing.”“Give him a patka!” laughed Akbar. “That boring pale blue one. I am keeping his turban.” FUN FACTS OF HISTORY1. Raza lived during the reign of King Akbar over 400 years ago. Akbar was the greatest king of the Mughal dynasty. He was also a famous warrior. He loved wearing clothes with new designs. He also enjoyed flying kites and eating mangoes!2. Babur, the founder of the Mughal dynasty, was the king of Kabul. He invaded India in 1526 and defeated the Sultan of Delhi, Ibrahim Lodi, at the Battle of Panipat. Akbar was Babur's grandson. He was an equally successful general and never lost a battle during his 49-year rule.3. Two Mughal kings built new cities. Akbar built Fatehpur Sikri near Agra and Shahjahan built Shahjahanabad in Delhi. Fatehpur Sikri lies empty today but Shahjahanabad (present-day Old Delhi) is full of life and people. 4. Shahjahan's famous Peacock Throne was a square flat seat, with slim pillars at each corner covered with precious jewels. The seat had a canopy, which had the figure of a peacock studded with gems on top of it. The emperor sat under the canopy, leaning against silk cushions.5. Many Mughal princesses were highly educated. Gulbadan Begum wrote the biography of her father, Babur. Shahjahan's daughter Jahanara was a poet.6. The Mughal fort had many kitchens. Each kitchen sent food for the king. So when he sat down to eat, he would have as many as thirty dishes to choose from! Lip-smacking Mughlai cusine, which includes yummy dishes like biryani, pulao, kalia and korma, originated in these kitchens.

Adun was very beautiful. All themen in her village wanted tomarry her. But Adun refusedthem all. One market day, a manborrowed legs from anotherman, and arms from another,and a body from a third man.Then this man joined all theparts together. He put his headon top and went to the market. This man wanted Adun and wasdetermined to marry her. Adunwas pleased by his appearance.She wanted to be with him. Theman came from a far town, andAdun decided to return withhim. As Adun and the man journeyedto his place, the owner of thelegs took the legs back.Then the owner of the armstook his arms back.And finally the owner of thebody took that back. Only the head was left, and thehead went on. Adun was scaredbut she did not run away. Theyarrived at the house of thehead. The following morning, beforethe head went to his farm, hespoke to Tortoise. "If Adun triesto escape, blow this horn to tellme," said the head. After the head left, Adun packedher things. Then she began torun away. Seeing her, Tortoise blew thehorn, "Head, head, Adun isabout to run away," puffedTortoise. The head went up to Adun andsaid, "Where do you think youare going?"Adun went back to the head'shouse. Eventually Adun consulted adiviner about what to do. Thediviner advised, "Go and buysome bean cakes. Soak them inpalm oil and put them inTortoise's horn." Adun followed the diviner'sinstructions. She put the oilycakes into the horn. The following day, she took herthings and began to run awayagain. When Tortoise took thehorn to blow it, the deliciousbean cakes fell into his mouth. Tortoise ate, ate and ate.And Adun ran away.

In a small garden in the city, there was a big pipal tree.A family of squirrels lived on that tree. Vikki is one member of that family who likes to talk big. His cousin, Kato had come to visit him from Far Forest. “Today we shall go on a big boat,” said Vikki to Kato.“B... B... But, I... I...am afraid of water, I cannot swim,” mumbled Kato.“Come on, you scrappy squirrel! With Vikki around, you need not be afraid. I have been on a boat many times.”Vikki importantly leading the way, they reached the river. The boat was tied to a post. So they ran up the rope, hopped into the boat, and sat curled in a corner. Slowly the boat started moving up and down the river, which curled and curved through the trees. Kato saw many ducks swimming past them.The fish put their heads out of the water and gulped a “Hello!”Some swans majestically glided near them. They were so beautiful that Kato tried to touch one and he toppled over into the river. As he went deeper into the water, he passed some fish.“Help! Help!” he gurgled, as he passed the boat. Vikki did not know what to do. He just scampered from one side of the boat to the other side, shouting, “Help! Squirrel overboard!”A swan had seen Kato fall into the water. She just put her head down in the water and picked up Kato in her beak. Then she tossed him into the boat. A shivering, trembling Kato sat in a sunny corner to dry himself.Vikki sat quietly near him. As he got warm and dry, he cheered up, “What an adventure! Wait till I tell the folks back home.”Already he fancied himself as a sailor! A hero! Brave and adventurous! When the boat reached the bank, the squirrels hopped off and swaggered their way home. Kato was finding it difficult to keep his grand adventure inside his head. His head was going round and round like the boat.He shut his eyes and fell fast asleep at the dinner table.

Do you remember the Great Race between the hare and the tortoise?For a long time, no one in the entire animal kingdom could talk about anything but the Great Race and its two contestants. We all know that the rabbit was defeated because he was lazy and overconfident.We know that the tortoise won the race because he was slow and steady. The forest animals knew this too, and continued to respect both creatures equally. Even the two competitors remained friends. The tortoise did not assume airs because he had won, and the hare, realising he had been defeated fair and square, bore the tortoise no grudge. Many months passed. The king of the jungle where the hare and the tortoise lived had some important matters to discuss with the king of the neighbouring jungle.But the first king could not leave his jungle just then. He decided, instead, to send the hare and tortoise to the neighbouring king, as his representatives. "At least one of you must go to the neighbouring kingdom," ordered the king, when the hare and the tortoise had presented themselves."I want you to discuss certain important matters with the king there, and come back to me with his thoughts on those matters." "Now go!" he said, as he dismissed them. "And mind, you only have a day to complete the task." The road to the neighbouring kingdom was not smooth or easy.It was rocky and full of thorns.There were also two rivers to cross on the way. After some thought, both the hare and the tortoise realised that neither of them could complete the task alone.They had to travel together. The plan was for the hare to carry the tortoise over the thorny parts of the route, and for the tortoise to carry the hare across the two rivers. The next day, they collected the various messages from their king and were ready to go.The hare made short work of the thorny parts of the route with his giant loping strides, while the tortoise held on for dear life. When they came to a river, they switched places, and the hare clambered onto the tortoise's back. The tortoise swam across the river gracefully.Once both rivers had been crossed, it did not take them long to arrive at the neighbouring kingdom. After long discussions with the neighbouring king on all the matters raised by their own king, the hare and the tortoise were ready to leave. The journey home was even smoother than the outward journey, since both the hare and the tortoise now knew exactly what to do.The two old rivals had worked so well that they reached the king well ahead of the deadline he had set!

There was once a sparrow called Gubbi. One day, Gubbi went off to the market and bought herself a nice juicy guava. On the way back, the guava slipped from Gubbi's beak and fell into a clump of thorns. Gubbi couldn't bear the thought of losing her fruit. She decided she would get it back at any cost. First she went to a boy working nearby.“Little boy, little boy, please get my guava back for me,” she begged.“Can't do it,” replied the boy. “Go away!” Gubbi was furious. She went straight to the farmer. She said, “I dropped my fruit in a clump of thorns. I asked the boy to help me but he didn't. Now I want you to give him a good beating.”“Won't do it,” said the farmer. “Go away!” Gubbi went straight to a cow that was grazing in the farmer's pasture. She said, “I dropped my fruit in a clump of thorns. I asked the boy to help me but he didn't. I asked the farmer to give the boy a beating but he didn't. Now I want you to go and eat up the farmer's crops.”“Can't do it,” said the cow, and turned her head away. Gubbi flew straight to the fisherman. She said, “I dropped my fruit in a clump of thorns. The boy did not help me, the farmer did not help me, and the cow did not help me. Now I want you to whip the cow.”“Won't do it,” said the fisherman and cast his net again. Gubbi went straight to the rat. She said, “I dropped my fruit in a clump of thorns. The boy did not help me, the farmer did not help me, the cow did not help me, and the fisherman did not help me. Now I want you to chew up the fisherman's net.”“Can't do it,” said the rat, and scurried away. Gubbi flew straight to the cat. She said, “I dropped my fruit in a clump of thorns. The boy did not help me, the farmer did not help me, the cow did not help me, the fisherman did not help me, and the rat did not help me. Now I want you to catch the rat.”“Won't do it,” said the cat. Gubbi did not know what to do. She wished someone would do as she said. Suddenly, she remembered her friend, the ant. Gubbi knew he could help her get her fruit back. Gubbi flew straight to the ant's house. When she saw him, she asked simply,“Will you bite a cat for me?”“Sure!” said the ant. “Show me where she is!” The ant kept his word and bit the cat.The cat went chasing after the rat and caught him.The rat quickly chewed up the fisherman's net.The fisherman whipped the cow.The cow ate up all the farmer's crops. The farmer gave the boy a beating. The boy picked up the guava that had fallen into the clump of thorns and gave it back to Gubbi. Gubbi was thrilled. She thanked her friend the ant with all her heart. Greedy Gubbi wanted to eat the guava immediately. She settled down on a branch for a feast. She had only had a small bite of it when something heavy fell on her head. A crow flying overhead with a big chunk of firewood in his beak had dropped it on Gubbi by accident. Gubbi fainted. And that is how naughty Gubbi was punished. And that is the end of the story.

Dhani knew something exciting was being planned at the ashram, but no one would tell him anything. “Just because I'm nine years old,” thought Dhani glumly. “I'm sure they think I'm stupid. I am not!”Dhani and his parents lived in a very special place. It was Mahatma Gandhi's Sabarmati Ashram near Ahmedabad where people from all over India came to stay. Like Gandhiji, they were all fighting for India's freedom. During their stay at the ashram, they spent their time spinning khadi thread on charkhas, singing bhajans and listening to Gandhiji's lectures.At Sabarmati, everyone had to work – cook and clean, wash clothes, fetch water from the well, milk the cows and goats, and grow vegetables. Even Dhani had a job – he had to take care of Binni, one of the ashram's goats. He quite enjoyed that because Binni was his best friend and he liked talking to her. That morning, as Dhani fed Binni with fresh grass and changed the water in her bowl, he said, “Something's up, Binni! They all sit and talk in Gandhiji's room. They are planning something. I know it!”Binni chewed and nodded as if she understood.Dhani felt hungry. He headed towards the kitchen, with Binni skipping along beside him. His mother was fanning the chulha, filling up the room with smoke.“Amma, is Gandhiji going somewhere?” he asked. His mother coughed in the smoke and said, “They are going on a march.”“March? Where are they going?” Dhani queried.“Somewhere near the sea. Now stop asking questions and go away Dhani!” his mother said impatiently. “Let me finish the cooking first.”Dhani wandered off to the vegetable garden where old Binda was digging up potatoes. “Binda chacha,” Dhani sat beside him, “are you going on the march too?”Binda shook his head. Before he could say anything, Dhani eagerly asked, “Who is marching? Where are they going? What is happening?”Binda stopped digging and said, “I'll answer all your questions, but first tie up that troublesome goat. She's chewing up my spinach.”Dhani dragged Binni away and tied her to the lemon tree nearby. Then Binda told him about the march. Gandhiji and some of the men from the ashram were going to walk through Gujarat to reach the sea at a place called Dandi. They would walk through villages and towns for a whole month. Once they reached Dandi, they would make salt.“Salt?” Dhani sat up and frowned. “Why will they make salt? You can buy it in every shop!”“I know,” Binda laughed. “But Mahatmaji has a plan. You know he always marches to protest against something, right?”“Of course I know. He leads the Satyagraha marches to fight the British government and win freedom for India. But why is he protesting about salt? It's silly!”“It's not silly at all, Dhani! Do you know we all have to pay a tax on salt?”“So what?”“Everyone needs salt... that means, every Indian, even the poorest, has to pay this tax,” explained Binda chacha.“That is really unfair!” Dhani's eyes were hot with anger.“Of course it's unfair. Not only that, Indians are not allowed to make any salt either. Mahatmaji has asked the British to stop the tax, but they have refused. So he has decided to walk to Dandi and make salt from seawater.”“Walking for a month!” Dhani brooded worriedly. “Gandhiji will get really tired. Why don't they take a bus or train to Dandi instead?”“Because, if he goes on this long march and walks all the way to Dandi, the news will spread. There will be pictures in the papers and reports on the radio, and people all over the world will know that we are fighting for our freedom. And that will really embarrass the British.”“Gandhiji is clever, isn't he?” Dhani's eyes were shining.“Ah, that he is!” Binda's eyes crinkled with laughter. “He's even written to the Viceroy and told him what he plans to do! The British have no idea what they are in for!”Later in the morning, Dhani wandered up to the hut where Gandhiji was staying and peered in through a window. Inside, many of the ashram people were talking to Gandhiji. Dhani heard them planning the route along which they would walk to Dandi. He was thrilled to see his father sitting among the people.In the afternoon, when the ashram was quiet,Dhani went looking for his father. He foundhim under a tree, spinning on his charkha.“Pitaji, are you and Amma going on the march to Dandi?” Dhani got straight to the point.“I am going. You and Amma will stay here.”“I am coming with you.”“Don't be silly, Dhani. You can't walk so much.Only the ashram's young men will go.” “I'm nine and I can run faster than you can!”Dhani replied stubbornly. “You can't stop mefrom coming with you.”His father stopped spinning and explainedpatiently, “Only the people who have beenchosen by Mahatmaji will go.”“Fine! I'll talk to him then! I'm sure he'll say yes,” said Dhani and marched off.Gandhiji was a very busy man and it was not easy to catch him alone. But Dhani knew exactly when he would have the time to listen – early every morning when he went for a walk around the ashram.The next morning, as the sun came up, Dhani slipped out of bed and went looking for Gandhiji. He found him in the cowshed checking on all the cows. Then he strolled into the vegetable garden to inspect the peas and cabbage and have a chat with Binda. All the while, Dhani and Binni followed him.Finally, Gandhiji headed back to his hut. He sat down beside his charkha in the verandah and called out to Dhani, “Come here, child!” Dhani ran up, with Binni skipping along.“What's your name beta?”“Dhani, Gandhiji.”“And this is your goat?”“Yes, Gandhiji! This is my friend Binni, who gives the milk you drink every morning.” Dhani smiled proudly and said, “I take care of her.”“Good!” Gandhiji leaned forward. “Now Dhani, tell me why you and Binni have been followingme everywhere this morning?”“I wanted to ask you something,” Dhani begannervously. “Can I come with you to Dandi?”Gandhiji smiled, “You are too small, beta. Dandiis 385 kilometres away and only young men like your father will be able to walk with me.”“But you are not young!” Dhani said. “Won't you feel tired?”“I am a very good walker,” Gandhiji replied.“I am a good walker too.” Dhani was adamant.“Ah yes,” Gandhiji looked thoughtful. “But there is a problem. If you go with me, who will take care of Binni? After walking for so long, I will become weak. When I come back, I'll need to drink lots of milk to become strong again.” “Hmm, you're right, Gandhiji. Binni eats only when I feed her.” Dhani lovingly stroked Binni's head, “And only I know what she likes to eat.”“Exactly! So will you stay in the ashram and take care of Binni for me?”“Yes, Gandhiji, I will,” said Dhani. “And Binni and I will be waiting for you.”“Hmm, you're right, Gandhiji. Binni eats only when I feed her.” Dhani lovingly stroked Binni's head, “And only I know what she likes to eat.”“Exactly! So will you stay in the ashram and take care of Binni for me?”"Yes, Gandhiji, I will,” said Dhani. “And Binni and I will be waiting for you.”Fun facts of History1. In March 1930, Mahatma Gandhi led the march to Dandi to protest against the tax on salt imposed by the British. Gandhi and his followers walked through Gujarat for 24 days. All along the way, they were welcomed with flowers and songs. Newspapers across the world carried reports about the march.2. At Dandi, Gandhi and his followers collected salt from the seashore and were arrested. The arrest sparked off the Non-cooperation Movement, and people all over India boycotted schools, colleges and offices.3. There were 78 volunteers who accompanied Gandhi on the march. They covered a distance of 385 kilometres.4. The march began on 12 March and ended on 5 April 1930. The youngest marcher was 16 years old.5. The year 2005 marks the 75th anniversary of the Dandi March.

My baby boy is John Francis. He likes yellow bananasand apples. After taking his breakfast, he goes to play with a friend.

One day there was a great faminein the land. No one had anything toeat except the crows.Each morning they flew a longdistance to where there was a treewith ripe figs in the middle of a wideriver. Then they flew back with thefigs for themselves and theirrelatives.The sight of so many figs madeAnansi's mouth water. How could heget them for himself? He thought of a plan.He carefully covered his bottomwith sticky beeswax. Then he took apiece of clay pot and went to seethe crows."Please could you help me?" heasked. "I need a live coal to get myfire going again."As they were getting the coal fromthe fire, Anansi carefully sat firmlyon one of the largest figs, so that itwould stick to his bottom. Hethanked the crows, and hurriedhome to enjoy the fig. But one fig wasn't enough for him.He went back a second time, anddid the same. When he went back athird time, the crows began to getsuspicious."Why do you keep coming back tous to get a coal?" they said. Anansianswered, "Every time when I gethome, the coal has burnt out.""You're lying!" said the crows. "Youjust want our food!""That's not true," said Anansi.And he started crying. The crows felt sorry for him. Thenext morning at first light, eachcrow gave him a feather. He flewwith them to the fig tree in themiddle of the wide river. When hesaw the luscious figs, Anansiwanted them all for himself.Each time a crow tried to pick a fig,he shouted out, "That one is mine! Isaw it first!" And then he took thefig and put it into his bag.Eventually he had all the figs andthe crows had none. He was left all alone as thedarkness began to fall."If I don't want to stay in this treefor the rest of my life," he said tohimself, "I'll just have to jump intothe air like the crows".So he took a deep breath, jumped,and...PLOP!He fell into the river right amongthe crocodiles. "What do we have here?" said agruff crocodile voice. "A tastymorsel to eat, nyum...""Oh please don't," said Anansi. Andhe began to cry. "I'm one of you,don't you know? I got lost in thedays of your grandfathers and noone was able to find me. You're thefirst of my relatives I've ever met!"He cried so much that thecrocodiles felt sorry for him. The oldest crocodile said, "We'llknow you're one of us if you can eatand enjoy mud soup just like wedo."They gave him a pot of dirty brownwater. "Just like my grandmotherused to make it!" Anansi said.But he made a hole in the groundwith his back foot, and a hole in thepot with his front foot. As hepretended to drink the soup, itoozed down through the pot intothe hole beneath his feet. "Delicious!" he exclaimed, givingback the empty pot."Now we know you are definitelyone of us," the crocodiles said.So they allowed Anansi to sleep intheir hole with them for the night."Tomorrow morning I'll tell you thestory of my life," said Anansi asthey fell asleep. Early the next morning, before firstlight, Anansi woke up one of thecrocodiles."I want to go and fetch my wife andchildren from across the river, sothat they can help me tell my story.Will you help me before the otherswake up?" he asked the crocodile. The crocodile was grumpy at beingwoken up so early."Please help me! You swim muchfaster than I do," Anansi said.The crocodile agreed, and Anansirode on his back to the bank of theriver.He climbed off quickly. "I'll be backsoon! Don't go away!" Anansi said,as he disappeared through thegrass. As far as we know, the crocodile iswaiting for him still, with just hislong snout and his beady eyesabove the surface of the river.

One day, grandfather gave my brother and me some money."Go and buy books," he said.We were both very happy. We both love to read. Should we go now? Should we go later?Should we go today? Should we go tomorrow?We decided to go right now. Should we go to the big market? Should we go to the small shop?Should we go with somebody? Should we go alone?We decided to go to the small shop, just the two of us. We like the small bookshop. It is small but it has many books.The man in the shop likes us. He always helps us. Should I buy a book with a lot of pictures?Should I buy a book with many stories?Should I buy a thin book?I could not decide. We do not know which book to buy. The man in the shop smiled at us. “Relax, come with me,” he said. “These books are about animals. Those are about machines. Those over there are about wars. Take what you want.” I picked up some books. My brother picked up some books.I sat on the floor. He sat on the chair.And we read and we read and we read. It was very quiet. There was no sound.One hour passed. Two hours passed.Finally, we knew which books to buy. The man in the bookshop smiled at us. I got a fat book with many stories. My brother got a big book with many pictures.We ran home to our grandfather. We climbed on his bed.He put his arms around us and then we read, and read, and read.

MelaShobhini asked Nani, “Shall we go to the mela?”From a distance they could see the big giant wheel. It turned slowly and then faster and faster. “Shall we take a ride on the giant wheel?” Shobhini said to Nani.The wheel began to move slowly. Then it began to go faster and faster. Shobhini closed her eyes tightly. She was not really scared but felt better when she held on to Nani's hand. She would open her eyes a little from time to time to see where they were. Shobhini noticed that Nani did not shut her eyes. Instead she was laughing and waving to the people below.When the ride was over, Shobhini and Nani wandered around in the mela. Shobhini bought a little horn. She tooted so hard that a dog jumped up and ran away. Nani bought Shobhini a gas balloon. When they came home, Shobhini tied a small paper basket to the balloon and put some ants in the basket. Then she let go of the string. The balloon floated high above the house, beyond the field, past the mela and went off far, far away.### Shobhini Combs Nani's HairNani had just washed her hair. Her hair was long, soft and white and it was shining in the sunshine. “Nani, can I comb your hair for you?” asked Shobhini. “I will do it carefully. I won't hurt you at all.”Shobhini combed Nani's hair carefully. She made a parting in the middle and divided her hair into two parts. With each portion she made a pony tail on either side of Nani's head. Not happy with the pony tails, she made them into two long plaits.Quickly Shobhini found a big yellow flower. She stuck the flower in one of Nani's plaits. A red and orange butterfly came and sat down on Nani's hair. Right next to the big yellow flower. Shobhini ran to bring a mirror.She showed Nani the two long plaits, the big yellow flower and the colourful butterfly. ### Jungle“Shall we go to the jungle?” Shobhini asked Nani. “There are wild animals there. You won't be scared, I hope?”Shobhini and Nani reached the jungle. First they saw a rabbit. He was lost and was looking for his mother. His eyes were full of tears. Shobhini and Nani helped him find his mother.Elephants were bathing in the river. They filled water in their trunks and sprayed it like a fountain over each other. It looked like a lot of fun.One monkey was eating a mango on a tree. Shobhini teased the monkey and made a face at him. The monkey was furious. He took a mango and threw it at Shobhini. Nani quickly put her hand out and swiftly caught the mango before it could hit Shobhini. It was a very good catch.“Wow! Nani!!” said Shobhini. “I did not know that you could play cricket!” RainIt was raining. Sometimes it was windy and the rain came pouring down hard and loud. Sometimes the rain was soft.Shobhini asked Nani, “Can I go out and play in the rain? I want to get wet.”“Be careful of the lightning,” replied Nani.Shobhini's dog Pillu was under the chair. When he saw Shobhini with an umbrella, he came out from under the chair. Pillu licked Shobhini's hand and wagged his tail.“All right,” said Shobhini “You can come too.”Shobhini walked ahead. Pillu was just behind her. As they reached the end of the verandah, there was a sudden gust of wind. Shobhini's umbrella flew out of her hand and out onto the grass. There was a streak of lightning in the sky. Shobhini stopped. A few seconds later, there was a very loud clap of thunder. Pillu ran back to the house and hid under the chair. Shobhini ran back and hid in Nani's lap.WoolNani was sitting in the sun. She was rolling wool into a ball. “Can I help you?” asked Shobhini.Shobhini looked for the end of the wool. She started rolling it into a ball like Nani was doing. Soon the wool became a big ball. When it was too big, it slipped out of Shobhini's hand and jumped up in the air.Many swans were flying overhead. One of them caught the ball of wool. Shobhini looked up and saw a long string of red wool hanging from the sky. Shobhini clapped her hands when she saw this sight. The other end of the wool slipped out of her hands.When the swan heard the clap he looked down. He could see Shobhini on the ground but she looked very small from so high up. As he looked, the ball of wool slipped out of his mouth. Shobhini ran to where the wool fell from the sky. She quickly rolled up all the wool and gave the ball to Nani.The RiverIt was a hot summer day. “Nani, will you come with me to the river to bathe?” asked Shobhini.The river was quite far from the house. Nani and Shobhini sat in a tonga and reached the riverbank. Many people were bathing on the ghats. The water near the banks did not flow very fast. Shobhini had brought many paper boats with her. One of her boats quickly floated away very far. Nani talked to a boatman. Shobhini and Nani sat in the boat and went quite far.The boatman said, “The water is very deep here. If you put one elephant on top of another, they would both sink.”‘Wow! One elephant on top of another,' thought Shobhini, entranced. A goldfish leapt out of the water. It touched Shobhini's hand. Shobhini was delighted. The boatman said, “Come again, Shobhini.”“You know me?” asked Shobhini surprised.“Yes, I know your mother too,” said the boatman, “When she was little, I used to take her out on this boat.”Nani smiled at Shobhini. The Moon“Let us go to the moon today,” said Shobhini to Nani. She took Nani's special walking stick – the one that had a head of silver.First Shobhini climbed on the stick. “Get on carefully, Nani,” said Shobhini. “There is nothing to be scared of.” The stick zoomed into the air with Shobhini sitting on the stick and Nani behind her. They flew into the sky, above all the birds and the clouds. Soon they were like tiny dots in the sky. We are all waiting for them to come back...

My little brother sleeps very late. I wake early, because I am great! I am the one who lets in the sun. "You're my morning star," says Ma. I wash myself, I don't need any help. I can cope with cold water and blue smelly soap. Ma reminds, "Don't forget teeth." I reply, "Never, not me!" After washing, I greet Grandpa and Auntie, and wish them a good day. Then I dress myself, "I'm big now Ma," I say. I can close my buttons and buckle my shoes. And I make sure little brother knows all the school news. In class I do my best in every way. I do all these good things every day. But the thing I like most, is to play and play!

Kobole lived in a smallvillage. One afternoon, Kobolewas out picking passionfruits. Somethingunusual happened. He saw colourful linescurved across the sky. He dropped all the fruitand ran home to tell thevillagers. He found everybodyalready standingoutside their homes.They were looking atthe sky. Kobole said, "It is abeautiful cloth hangingfrom the sky." Nenosaid, "No! I thinksomeone is pouringpaint from the sky." Some people agreedwith Kobole. Othersthought that Neno wasright. The two groupsargued. A man from a farawayvillage arrived and said,"You are all wrong." The people shouted,"Then what is it?" The stranger said, "It isthe rainbow. Have younever seen the rainbowbefore?" "What is a r-a-i-n-b-ow?" the villagers asked,looking at the stranger. Neno asked, "Is it ours?Can we keep it here?"But the man hadalready gone away.

Amma had just begun to make some halwa for Samira's birthday when she found that there was no sooji.“Will you please run down to that shop and buy some sooji, dear?” said Amma pointing to the shop at the corner of the street, and gave her some money. “Here are twelve rupees. Ask for half a kilo of sooji. Take Mouchak with you, and don't talk to any strangers on the way,” she said.“And don't go climbing trees,” she added as Samira set out with Mouchak to buy half a kilo of sooji.It was a pleasant February day. Samira sang, “Tra la la la la,” as she skipped along.“Woof! Woof!” said Mouchak friskily. They had just reached the corner when Samira saw a butterfly.“Oh! How lovely! Let us try and catch it,” she said, and both of them ran after the butterfly. It went and sat on a baramasi flower, but away it flew exactly when Samira reached out to it. “Oh, oh!” she said sadly, then remembered that it wasn't right to catch butterflies anyway. They should be free. A brown cat with grey stripes ran across and Mouchak began to chase it, saying, “Bow wow, bow wow wow!” And behind Mouchak ran Samira, breathless. The brown-and-grey cat leapt over a wall and disappeared. Mouchak and Samira stopped, looked at each other and laughed. Then Samira saw a chandni bush. ‘Aren't the flowers like stars in the night sky? How happy Amma will be to have them,' she thought, and plucked a lot of chandni flowers. Mouchak sniffed at them and turned away. He had found something more exciting ahead!“Hey, where are you off to?” asked Samira, but all she got was, “Woof, woof, woof,” as Mouchak bounded off joyfully. He had found a bone and he held it out proudly to Samira. Wasn't that nice? They had reached a great simal tree a-twitter with parrots and bulbuls. The ground below was carpeted with hundreds of rich scarlet flowers. Delighted, Samira filled her pinafore with the waxy blossoms. Her arms full of flowers, she looked up and realized that she didn't know where she was. She looked right and she looked left, she looked ahead and she turned on her heel, but everything was new. Samira was lost. She sat down on the pavement and began to cry, “I want to go home. I want Amma.”Mouchak ran up and down and said, “Woof! Woof,” which meant, “Don't worry,” but Samira didn't understand and kept crying. Then Mouchak pulled at her dress saying, “Bow bow,” (which meant “Come, come,”) till at last she looked up and dabbed her eyes. Off they both went then, Samira sniffing a little and dropping half her flowers. She ran behind Mouchak, turning left and turning right, up one street and down another, and soon they were home. Amma was standing at the gate, looking up and down anxiously. “Where have you been?” she asked, looking at Samira's tear-stained face. And Samira told Amma how she had got lost and how Mouchak had brought her home. “Good dog,” said Amma, and gave him a nice big biscuit as Mouchak buried his bone in the garden. Just then, Samira remembered that she was clutching a bunch of flowers in her hand. “Oh, Amma, these are for you,” she held out the chandni flowers. One simal blossom was sticking out of her pocket too.“These are lovely!” said Amma. “Thank you so much. But where is the sooji?”Amma is going to make kheer now as there is no sooji for the halwa. Samira loves kheer too. And isn't Mouchak lucky? He'll have a huge bowl of kheer in the evening with his juicy bone.

Once, long ago, there was a boycalledSizwe who lived with his mothernear to the Chief's kraal.Now Sizwe did so many sillythings, that everybody calledhim "Silly Sizwe." The Chief, who lived in thatkraal, had a daughter whonever ever smiled or laughed,even when someone didsomething very funny or tickledher. One day, Sizwe and his motherhad nothing eat, so his mothertold him to go and get a job atthe Chief's kraal. He was askedto collect all the eggs, whichthe hens had laid all around thekraal. All day Sizwe looked for eggs, and when it was time to go home, he was givensome eggs to take to his mother. He was very happy as he ran off with the eggsin his hands. But just as he passed the Chief's house, he tripped over a stone anddropped the eggs.The Chief's daughter watched as he tried to catch thembefore they fell on the ground. He looked very funny, butthe girl did not even smile. When he got home, he told hismother what had happened."You silly boy," said his mother."You should have put the eggsin your hat and you could havebrought them safely home.""Never mind Mother," saidSizwe."I will do that next time." The next day, Sizwe was askedto milk theChief's cows.When he had finished milking atthe end of the day, he wasgiven a bucket of milk to takehome to his mother.Just as he got to the Chief'shouse, he remembered that thebucket belonged to the Chief.So he poured the milk into hishat. Then Sizwe put his hat onagain. Woosh! The milk splashed allover him.He looked very funny, as themilk ran down his face andclothes.The Chief's daughter saw whathappened, but she never evensmiled. "You silly child," said hismother, "If you had carried thebucket in your hand, you couldhave brought the milk safelyhome.""Never mind Mother," saidSizwe. "I will remember to dothat next time." The next day, Sizwe had to lookafter the Chief's pigs. Heworked very hard feeding thepigs. When the work was done,he was given a little piglet totake home.Remembering what his motherhad said, he tried to carry thepiglet in his hands. But thepiglet wriggled and wriggled,until it wriggled out of hishands.Sizwe tried to catch it, but hefell in the mud. The Chief's daughter saw Sizwefall in the mud, but she did notlaugh. She never even smiled.His mother was very cross withSizwe when he told her whathad happened."You stupid boy," she said, "youshould have held the rope andpulled the piglet behind you.""Never mind Mother. I will dothat next time," said Sizwe. The next day, Sizwe had to work in the Chief's kitchen. Heworked hard all day washing the dishes. When all the workwas done, the cook gave Sizwe a big fish to take home.Sizwe was very happy with the fish, and remembering what his mother had said,he tied a rope to the fish and went off home, pulling it behind him. The chief's cats smelled the fishand came running out of thehouses to get a bit of fish. Soonthey had eaten all the fish.By the time he got to theChief's house, all he was pullingwas the fish bones.Did the chief's daughter laugh?No, she did not even smile. "You silly, silly boy," said hismother when she told her whathad happened. You should havecarried it on your shoulder.""Don't worry," said Sizwe, "I willdo so next time." The next day when Sizwe got towork, he had to clean the cow'skraal. He worked hard all day. Atthe end of the day, he wasgiven one of the Chief's cows totake to his mother.Sizwe was very happy. Heremembered his mother'swords, "Carry it home on yourshoulder." Sizwe got down on his handsand knees under the cow. thenhe pushed and pushed until atlast he had the cow on hisshoulders.As he staggered past theChief's house, the daughter sawSizwe. He looked so funny!And do you know whathappened?She laughed and laughed andlaughed. The Chief was so happy to hearhis daughter laugh, that hecalled Sizwe into his house andtold him that because he hadmade his daughter laugh, Sizweand his mother should live inthe kraal.So Sizwe and his mother wentto live in the Chief's kraal.Everybody lived happily everafter.

In the swamp on the far side of the Far Forest, lived Sniffles, the Crocodile. Sniffles was always crying big crocodile tears or going sniff... sniff... Even his mom was quite tired of him and would say, “Stop snivelling and crying, start behaving like a crocodile. Go hunt for your food.” But Sniffles would burst into tears at the thought of eating another animal. So mom and dad had to feed Sniffles every day. Sniffles did not want to be a crocodile. 'I am so ugly,' he thought, bursting into tears. He did not even want to live like crocodiles do. His best friend was Punch, a golden yellow butterfly. And Punch wanted to be big and strong. So Punch always had her feeler curled into a fist saying, “Look out! I will punch you in the mouth.” They made a very funny pair. Sniffles swimming with Punch perched on his head. The other crocodiles would laugh and make fun of them. That did not bother Sniffles. He continued crying, sniffling and being friends with Punch. One sunny afternoon, Punch settled herself near Sniffles' ear and told him, “I have seen two men come this way with guns, they want to kill crocodiles for their skins.”“Don't these men have skins of their own?” asked a puzzled Sniffles.“I don't know Sniffles,” replied Punch. “Tell the other crocodiles and hide.” “But Punch, they might shoot you. Oh! What will I do,” cried Sniffles sobbing loudly.“People catch butterflies with nets and pin them on a board, my grandaunt told me,” said Punch and flew away. The other crocodiles heard Sniffles crying and shouting, “Men coming to kill us. Hide ... Hurry ... Hide.” At first the crocodiles did not believe Sniffles, but then they heard the men's footsteps.The crocodiles went deep into the river and left some rotten logs floating on the water. The men shot at the logs which looked like crocodiles from afar. The men could not see any crocodiles, only hundreds of butterflies that flew into their faces and hair. Shaking their heads and trying to brush off the butterflies they said, “There are no crocodiles here, we will bring nets and catch the butterflies.” And off they went. All the crocodiles got together and said, “Thank you, Punch.”“Thank you, butterflies.” The next day Sniffles saw men with nets. He remembered Punch telling him about nets. “Punch, the nets! Come here quick! The men with the nets have come.” All the crocodiles came on the river bank. The butterflies settled on the backs and heads of the crocodiles. A few of the crocodiles made a circle around the men as they came close. The crocodiles snapped their jaws. Sniffles was in front, gnashing his teeth and whipping his tail around most menacingly. The men were so frightened that they took to their heels and ran right out of the swamp. The other crocodiles were very proud of Sniffles, as he had acted like a real crocodile. Now Sniffles was also proud to be one. All the butterflies flew around the crocodiles, fluttering their wings.“Thank you, Sniffles, Thank you, crocodiles.”“It is all right,” said Sniffles shyly. “That is what friends are for, to take care of each other.”

Mother cow cow,I like you cow. Yesterday you gave me milk. My father buys meat every Saturday. Mummy has a nicebag, and I have verygood shoes.

Do you remember the Great Race between the hare and the tortoise? For a long time, no one in the entire animal kingdom could talk about anything but the Great Race and its two contestants. We all know that the rabbit was defeated because he was lazy and overconfident. We know that the tortoise won the race because he was slow and steady. The forest animals knew this too, and continued to respect both creatures equally. Even the two competitors remained friends. The tortoise did not assume airs because he had won, and the hare, realizing he had been defeated fair and square, bore the tortoise no grudge. Many months passed. The king of the jungle where the hare and the tortoise lived had some important matters to discuss with the king of the neighbouring jungle. But the first king could not leave his jungle just then. He decided, instead, to send the hare and the tortoise to the neighbouring king, as his representatives. “At least one of you must go to the neighbouring kingdom,” ordered the king, when the hare and the tortoise had presented themselves. “I want you to discuss certain important matters with the king there, and come back to me with his thoughts on those matters.”“Now go!” he said, as he dismissed them. “And mind, you only have a day to complete the task.” The road to the neighbouring kingdom was not smooth or easy. It was rocky and full of thorns. There were also two rivers to cross on the way. After some thought, both the hare and the tortoise realized that neither of them could complete the task alone. They had to travel together. The plan was for the hare to carry the tortoise over the thorny parts of the route, and for the tortoise to carry the hare across the two rivers. The next day, they collected the various messages from their king and were ready to go. The hare made short work of the thorny parts of the route with his giant loping strides, while the tortoise held on for dear life. When they came to a river, they switched places, and the hare clambered on to the tortoise's back. The tortoise swam across the river swiftly and gracefully. Once both the rivers had been crossed, it did not take them long to arrive at the neighbouring kingdom. After extensive discussions with the neighbouring king on all the matters raised by their own king, the hare and the tortoise were ready to leave. The return journey was even smoother than the onward journey, since both the hare and the tortoise now knew exactly what to do. The two old rivals had worked together so well that they reached their king a few hours before the deadline! Use your imagination and colour this picture anyway YOU like. Use your imagination and colour this picture anyway YOU like.

This is Azizi.Azizi is my doll. I like Azizi because healways smiles. After I wake up I washmy face.Then I look for Azizi. When I find Azizi I brushhis hair. When I eat breakfast Ifeed Azizi. When I eat sweets Igive one to Azizi. But Azizi never eats hissweet.I wonder why! I walk around thecompound pickingflowers. I give a flower to Azizi.But he never says,"Thank you." I wash Azizi cleanbefore my motherbathes me. I dress Azizi in redbecause I love thecolour red. When I go to sleep, I layAzizi beside me.

ButterflyI met a butterfly,yellow, black and brown.Hovering over flowers,flying up and down.She sits so nearI touch her with no fear.At once she flies away,she sits but doesn't stay. Thump ThumpThump Thump goes the elephant!Thump Thump the elephant comes!He lifts his trunk, he lowers it.Wading into the water,his trunk becomes a shower. Bump Bump goes the elephant!Bump Bump the elephant comes!Bananas for his big fat tum,he eats ten and counts one!Burp Burp goes the elephant!Burp Burp the elephant comes! Off to SchoolLeaves are greenand flowers red.Ready for schoolas you leave the bed.Left your pencil,dropped your book!Pick them upand off to school! Flying HighLovely little butterfly,yellow and blue butterfly.She looks like a petal on a flower,crossing flowerbeds afar.A wave of colour,with her wings aflutter,she looks so bright.Her quiet flight,in the morning light. Here Comes the CamelHere comes the camelrocking gently down the road!Such a tall animal!Here comes the camel!With a neck so tall,and a back so high,the camel gently goes by. His feet like the sand,carrying loads across the land,walking quietly on the sand.When he tires, he will sit.On his right or his left?That is his own SECRET! PeacockLook how the peacock dances,on dainty steps he advances.All his feathers in an arc,glowing hues light and dark.When the sky turns cloudy grey,the peacock begins to sway.Moving gently on his feet,dancing to the rainy beat! Food So Precious!How about some idli-dosa,or a nice hot samosa?Let us eat some sweet mithai,yummy rabri and malai!Would you like some poori bhaji, or fried brinjal bhaaja? Spongy fresh dhokla is nice,to gobble up in a trice.But do not hurry when you eat, careful not to spill any treat.Because FOOD is so precious,and also so DELICIOUS! Drip DropDrip Drop raindrops!Can I touch them as they Plop?Eyes shut and face upturned,for silver beads on curling lashes.Eyes open to see what splashes!Leaves and branches dripping wet.Birds shedding little droplets!Silver sheets on roofs and walls,I see the rain as it falls! The RaceA tumbling red tomato,racing green peas!Stumbling came the cauliflower,not far behind is coriander!Who will reach the finish linein this race against time? Swinging HighTo and fro swings the doll,pulled by the bird so small.Uncle Monkey hides a smile,in his hat of the latest style.Aunty Kitten is also hereusing her fat glasses to peer.She also wants to have a goto touch the sky, to and fro! UmbrellaWho went to the market with Papa?His dear old umbrella!He is safe from the beating sun with his dear old umbrella!His bag in his right hand,guess what the left demands? When the rain comes pouring down,Umbrella-time all around!It gets wet but keeps Papa dry.Like a roof on his head that is not very high! Paper BoatLet us make a paper boat,in the water it will float!Away floats the paper boatrunning to a river unknown.Dancing on the swirling waves, a little speck as it sails away! My PencilMy pencil is so special,it jots down letters neat.In maths, it's hard to beat!Leaves and flowers, plants and pots, lions and birds, it draws in a shot!Drawing lines for a house so tall, my special pencil does it all! Chugetty ChugThere goes the train,Chugetty Chug!On the tracks,Chugetty Chug!The longest whistle in the land, Chugetty Clack!Not the slow passenger train,the fastest sleekest streaking Mail!Chugetty ClackGoes the train! My BallBounce Bouncegoes my ball!Run Runruns my ball!I like to runfor my ball!Quickly hidesmy naughty ball!Bounce Bouncecomes my ball!I'm happywhen I find my ball!

I am a big boy now. I can climb up the steps. But I cannot climb down again. I can climb on a chair. But I cannot climb down again. I climb on to the chair, and then on the table! But I cannot climb down again. “Papa! Papa!” I shout.Papa laughs. “Sonu, learn to climb down!” he says. I am afraid. But I do not cry. Slowly, I get down from the table, and down from the chair. At last, I have learnt to climb down too!

This is Jaaka thefisherman fromNaminya. He fishes on the riverNile. He has a boat, fishingnet and a hook. He always wakes upvery early in themorning to catch theNile perch. At around 10am, he'sselling his catch in Jinjacentral market. Jaaka what happened?Was it a loss? He's sosad. "Today the situation isbad. The Nile breeze didnot permit me to fish.And one perch swamaway with my hook." "But I have hope thattomorrow will be good,because I've bought anew hook."

Mother's song was soft and sweet.Chandu was listening to it. Chandu fell asleep.In his dream, he was flying. Flying, flying into a garden. Look! A butterfly, so pretty.The butterfly said, “Well, hello! How are you?”“Fine, thank you,” Chandu replied. Chandu flew a bit higher. Flying, flying. He flew into a sparrow.“Hi there! How do you do?” she asked.“Very well, thank you,” Chandu said. Then Chandu soared still higher. Flying, still flying, he met an eagle.“Hello friend! How are you?” the eagle asked.“I feel good,” replied Chandu. Chandu was flying higher and higher. It seemed so easy. Flying, flying. So high that he came up to an aeroplane.“Hey, Chandu, how do you do?” the aeroplane asked.“Fine. And safe journey!” Chandu quickly replied. Soon Chandu climbed higher than before. Flying and still flying.A rocket came to meet him. “Hello sir, how do you do?” the rocket shouted.“Very well,” Chandu smiled. Still, Chandu was flying higher and higher. Now the stars were twinkling all around. They were smiling at Chandu, as though he were a part of them.“How are you feeling Chandu?” one star asked him.“I am feeling great!” he said.Suddenly, the stars began to wobble. And shake. It was Mother, shaking Chandu awake. “Good morning, how are you?”He hugged her hard and said, “Oh, now I feel better than ever before!”

Once upon a time, therabbit and the monkeywere friends.One day, in a time offamine, the rabbitinvited his friend overto play. The rabbit said:Let'splay cooking eachother!The monkey asked:How can we do that? And the rabbitanswered: We have tomake a fire, and fill a pot withwater,and then put it onthe fire. I will get in first.When I beat on the lidof the pot, you open it.Then I will get out.And the monkeyagreed. So the rabbit got inthe pot first, and thewater started to warmup. The rabbit knocked, andthe monkey opened thelid. But when it was themonkey's turn, therabbit took a big stoneand put it on the lid ofthe pot and sat on topof it! When the water startedto boil, the monkeyknocked, but the rabbitdidn't open the lid. So the monkey died,and the rabbit ate hisbest friend!

Long time ago, there lived a girl whose name was Kalabushe. Kalabushe was a very talkative girl. Although her mother warned her not to talk too much, Kalabushe did not listen. Kalabushe's aunt lived across the valley on the other side of Kalabushe's village. One day she fell ill. She had nobody to take care of her. Kalabushe's mother was very busy. It was late in the evening when she gave Kalabushe food to take to her sick aunt. On the way, Kalabushe met Sinson. Sinson was a hyena who had changed into a person. Sinson asked Kalabushe, "What are you carrying?" Kalabushe answered, "I am carrying meat, eggs and milk." Kalabushe's mother had warned her not to say what she was carrying. Kalabushe also said, "I am taking the food to my sick aunt." Sinson licked his lips at the thought of the meat that Kalabushe was carrying. Sinson quickly ran ahead of Kalabushe to her aunt's house. He swallowed Kalabushe's aunt and then covered himself with her blanket. When Kalabushe arrived, the house was very quiet. She went inside and called out, "Aunt, where are you?" Kalabushe did not hear her aunt's voice. She went to the inner room where her aunt slept. She was surprised when she saw someone covered with a big blanket. Kalabushe asked, "Aunt, why are your ears so big today?" Sinson replied from under the big blanket, "So that I can hear you well." Kalabushe asked again, "Aunt, why are your eyes so big today?" Sinson answered, "So I can see you well." Kalabushe finally asked, "Aunt, why is your mouth so big today?" Sinson replied, "So I can eat you up!" He jumped from the bed and swallowed Kalabushe. Kalabushe kept talking even when she was inside Sinson's stomach. She asked many questions. In the end, Sinson was so tired of Kalabushe's many questions that he decided to spit her out. Kalabushe and her aunt were rescued by the villagers. From that day, Kalabushe did not talk too much to strangers.

Many years ago when Rumniya was a baby, Nana, Nani and Rumniya went to a wedding. There were hundreds of people at the party, most of whom were near the food. After some time, Nani lost Rumniya. When things get lost, Nani does not worry; she feels that everything will turn up, and turn out right very soon. So Nani did not feel worried. On the other hand, Rumniya was only one and a half years old, so she was quite worried and not as hopeful. But rather than doing any silly baby-like things like crying, Rumniya thought of doing something else. In that vast crowd, it was impossible for a small girl to search for people's faces. In fact, it was much easier to search for the right person by looking at people's feet, their shoes and sandals. So that is what Rumniya did. She started from one end of the room. She lifted up the sari of each and every woman. Then she came to a sari that was familiar, and slippers that she knew. Sure enough, when Rumniya matched the face with the sari and slippers, it was Nani! And as Nani bent down to pick Rumniya up, Nani said to her friend, “See, I told you. There was nothing to worry about. Whenever you lose something, you will always find it.”

I am a big boy now.I can draw and I can make things. I draw my mother, she sits still. I draw my sister, she does not sit still. I draw many things. But I am told not to draw on the wall. I can make things. I make a drawing of a cat, she is fat. I make a fish. It is small. I make paper boats, birds and planes. I make houses and trains. My sister makes a mess!I can make many things. But my sister cannot!

A long time ago, in the vast cityof Johannesburg, a baby girlwas born. That baby was me.My mom called me Miriam.Miriam Makeba. Mom was a sangoma, but shealso worked to make otherpeople's homes neat and clean.It was hard for my mom to earnenough for both of us. Shestarted selling homemade beerto bring in more money. The laws of the land said thatselling homemade beer waswrong. The police sent my momto jail for six long months. I wasonly 18 days old, and neededmy mom. So even though I wasjust a baby, I went to jail too. As a little girl I loved to sing.When I was older, I helped mymom clean houses. Singingsongs as I worked made thechores go faster and the daysseem brighter. Singing mademe happier than I can explain. I sang in my church, and thismade others happy too. Musichas the power to bring peopletogether. When we were singingwe felt brave and strong. People said my voice was a giftand my songs were special. Isang with other musicians andour music was heard all overthe world. My home was Sophiatown, aplace of culture and music.Sophiatown, a place whereSouth Africans could makemusic in harmony and dancetogether. But the people whoruled the land at the time didnot like this togetherness.Those rulers didn't want blackand white people to be friends. I knew it was wrong to treatpeople differently because oftheir skin colour. I did not hidemy beliefs, and so those peoplein charge wanted me out of thecountry.When I was singing in America,I was told I could never returnhome. People all over the world heardmy story. My songs and mystory helped many to see howthere was no fairness in SouthAfrica for those with black skin.I decided to go on singing andtelling the truth about mycountry, no matter what. The world loved my music and Iwas welcomed in manycountries. I won awards andsang for important people allover the globe. My life wasgood, but something wasmissing. I could not sing in myhome country, and people therewere not free. Then a wonderful day dawnedwhen Nelson Mandela becamepresident of South Africa. Newpeople were in charge and theunfair laws belonged to thepast. I finally went home withnew hope in my heart. After that I could sing in a free,fair country. People of differentskin colours could enjoy musictogether. I helped make thishappen because I was braveand strong. I sang the truth inall of my songs.

I can't find my bat, it's lost! It's not behind the door. It's not on the shelf. It's not under the bed either. It's not in the box. It's not in the loft. I can't find it anywhere!

Mother was finishingpacking her clothes in asmall bag. As she went out thedoor, she hugged meand said, "Bye for now." "Where are you going,mum?" I looked up ather as I asked. I started to cry wantingto follow her but dadlifted me up on hisshoulder. Dad said, "Your motheris going to the hospitalto have a baby." When I heard "baby" Istopped crying andlooked at him. "Why isshe going to get thebaby from thehospital?" I asked him. Dad sat me on a smallchair and said, "I willtell you why she isgoing to get the babyfrom the hospital."I listened keenly to him as he explainedalthough I didn't quite understand why shewasn't having the baby at home. When dadfinished explaining, I asked, "Will she stilllove me when she comes back with theother baby?" My dad held me closeand said, "We willalways love you." "Can I write a letter toher while she is there?"I asked dad. That evening, I beganto write a letter tomum. I tore a paper from myexercise book andbegan to write... "Mummy, mummy, dadsaid that you have goneto bring another baby... ...Please hurry up andreturn home... ...I want you to bring ababy girl, so I can playwith her when shegrows up... ...You can bring two soone can be mine... ...I am waiting for youhere outside ourhouse." I folded my letter so Icould give it to myfather to bring it tomum. When I woke upthe following morning,the letter was gone.

There was a mouse in the house. Grandma saw it first."Mouse!" she screamed, jumping up the sofa. The cushions fell on the floor. “Where?” asked Pa, climbing up the window. He pulled the curtains down. “There!” shouted Ma, leaping up the table. The plates fell with a crash. “Catch him!” said Mithun to the cat. The cat looked at the mouse and fled under the bed!“Mouse!” screamed Mithun, running behind the cat. “I will chase it out!” said Ma bravely. She took out the broom and poked here and there. “Mouse!” shouted Pa. “Behind you!”Ma looked at the mouse, and fled under the bed! "I know what to do!" shouted Grandma jumping down from the sofa. She rolled up a newspaper and poked here and there. “Mouse!” yelled Pa, climbing the window even higher.“To your left!” Grandma looked at the mouse, and fled under the bed. “Oh no!” said Pa softly. He couldn't go any higher. He climbed down carefully, and fled under the bed before the mouse could see him! "Mouse in the House!" shouted everyone together. That woke Baby up. She sat up on her mat, rubbing her eyes sleepily. What was that on her pillow? It had two eyes, four feet, and a long tail."Mouse!" said Baby, clapping happily. Baby looked at the mouse, and the mouse fled, with Baby right behind him! Leaping up the sofa, climbing the window, jumping up the table, tumbling over the cushions... ... running in between the curtains, scurrying over the plates, and out of the door!

She is called Ms Phone. Look at her! She has five cellphones.When she wakes up, she arranges her cellphones on the table. The yellow one is for communicating with family. The white one is for communicating with people at work. The red one is for communicating with those who owe her something. The pink one is for communicating with her best friends. The purple one is for communicating with people who need her help. Ms Phone likes people to be happy. She does not like fighting. She lets the children watch television at her shop. She visits the sick and the elderly in their homes. When she passes, there are shouts of "Ms Phone! Ms Phone!" Then she feels happy and says, "I am Ms Phone. Here, look at my phones!"That is Ms Phone and her five cellphones.

Namukuru and herbrother are readyfor school. Namukuru carriesher brother onher bicycle. Their friends cheerfor them as theyride into school. While they arein the classroom,a monkey arrivesoutside.The monkeyrides away onNamukuru's bicycle! The children chasethe monkey. The monkey leavesthe bicycle undera tree. The monkey swimsto an island in themiddle of the lake.He climbs high intoa tree. The monkey wavesgoodbye!The children wave back.Namukuru has herbicycle again.

My name is Shyam, I am ten years old.I am a little skinny, but very bold!Waking up for school is no fun at allI am so sleepy as I get up, I think I will fall. My eyes close as I begin to brush,I hear Amma making dosas in a rush.My mind slowly begins to wander away,And many, many ideas come into play. What if my neck was ten times as long?Half in school, half at home, where would I belong? What if my legs were as tall as trees?My school building would only come up to my knees! What if my arms were strong enough?Then, lifting Amma would not be tough! What if there was nothing too hard for my teeth?Think of all the things I could eat! What if my belly was as round as could be?All my friends could jump and bounce off me! What if I had big and floppy ears?I could hear everything, far and near! What if — I begin, but Amma shouts,“Shyam, you'll be late, what are you thinking about?” I find myself still standing with my brush in my hand,And I smile and think of my secret little land.

Long ago, there was a foolish lazy jackal. He lived with his old father in the Kalahari bush. One morning Old Jackal woke up to find his son sleeping in the sun. The food was not ready and the goats were still in the kraal!"Young man, you are so lazy! Go and find a wife. I am too old to look after you," said Jackal's father. So Jackal jumped up and took the goats out to graze. In the bush, he saw something shining on a rock. He went closer and closer to the rock. The closer he got, the more beautiful the shine was. Perhaps this was the wife for him?! "You are beautiful," said Jackal to the shine. "But who are you? Why are you alone?""I am the sun," the shine answered. "My family left me here when they moved on. They did not want to carry me. I am too hot." The jackal said, "But you are so beautiful! I will carry you. I will take you home to meet my father.""All right, you can carry me. But do not complain when I get too hot for you," said the sun. So Jackal put the sun on his back and started the journey home. Before long, the sun was burning Jackal's fur."Will you please come down from my back? I need to rest," said Jackal. His back was so sore that he could hardly walk."Just carry on!" said the sun. "I told you not to complain!" Then Jackal saw a log across the path. He crawled under the log so that the sun would fall off. But the log also scraped the skin and fur from his back and they were left behind with the sun. The new fur was a different colour to the fur on the rest of his body. The different colours always reminded Jackal not to be so foolish again.

Samira made a face when she opened her tiffin box and thought, ‘Who wants to eat parathas and brinjal curry? Not I.'Last week Amma had given her noodles with capsicum and carrots. “The noodles are squiggly and they look like worms,” she said when she went back home. “I don't like noodles.”The next day, Amma made upma with peanuts and peas, but Samira ate only the peanuts in it and took the rest back home.“It was like wet sand,” she said when Amma asked her why she hadn't eaten it. “Shall I give you idlis?” asked Amma.“Oh, yes! They would be lovely to play with. I can toss and catch them. But I will not eat them—idlis taste like mud.”So now there were parathas and brinjal curry. Ugh, ugh, ugh! Shutting her tiffin box with a bang, Samira went to the school courtyard. A row of ants crawling along the wall said, “Samira, why aren't you eating your lunch like all the other children?”Samira said, “I don't like parathas. I don't like vegetables. I don't want any lunch.” “Of course, one cannot eat vegetables,” the ants agreed. They offered her the wing of a cockroach that they were carefully carrying and said, “Now try this, it is really delicious.”“Oh no! I don't want any horrible cockroaches,” said Samira and ran away to the garden. Colourful flowers were blooming in the garden and butterflies were flitting from one to the other.An orange butterfly with black checks and stripes said, “Hello Samira! Why aren't you eating your lunch like all the other children?” Samira said, “I don't like parathas. I don't like vegetables. I don't want any lunch.”“Of course, one cannot eat vegetables,” the butterfly agreed.“Why don't you drink some nectar from the flowers like us? It is really delicious.” Samira put her tongue into the centre of a flower but could find nothing!“I don't want any nectar. And I think you are fooling me,” she cried. She ran to the big pipal tree in the lawn. A crow cawing above called, “Hello Samira! Why aren't you eating your lunch like all the other children?”Samira said, “I don't like parathas. I don't like vegetables. I don't want any lunch.” “Of course, one cannot eat vegetables,” the crow agreed, “Here, I'll give you something nice,” and it dropped a half-eaten mouse for Samira.“Oh no! What a terrible thing! Keep your mouse for yourself,” screamed Samira and ran away to stand near the wall. Some sparrows were chirruping on the ledge of the wall and called out, “Hello Samira! Why aren't you eating your lunch like all the other children?”Samira said, “I don't like parathas. I don't like vegetables. I don't want any lunch.” “Of course, one cannot eat vegetables,” the sparrows agreed. “Here are some crunchy grains of barley — they are really nutritious.”Samira chewed one and made a face. “This is like eating pebbles. Even upma is better.” A kind sparrow at once asked her, “Would you like some soft, juicy worms instead? Just a minute...”Just before it flew off to get her a worm, Samira said, “Worms indeed. No, thank you! I would much rather eat noodles,” and ran to the gate of the school. A cow was lazily chewing cud just outside and mooed when it saw Samira. “Hello!” it called, “Why aren't you eating your lunch like all the other children?”Samira said, “I don't like parathas. I don't like vegetables, especially brinjals. I don't want any lunch.” “Of course, cooked brinjals aren't nice at all,” the cow agreed. “Let me bite off some of this grass for you — it is particularly sweet after the rains. You should eat it with the hibiscus bush next to you. You are so lucky. I wish I could get inside this gate.” Samira was disgusted.She said, “I don't want to eat any grass. Nor any bushes. Even idlis would taste better than grass. And I am glad the gate is closed because the hibiscus has pretty flowers and I don't want you to eat them.” Samira ran back to her classroom and opened her lunch box.‘How nice my parathas and brinjal curry are,' she thought and quickly ate them up.

In the old days there were twopeople, Dima and Owl.Owl owned the sun, water and fire.Dima did not have any of thesethings and lived in darkness with hisfamily. Dima tried to make a garden, buthe could not grow vegetablesbecause there was no sun.Everybody suffered because therewas no sun.When they hunted animals to eat,they hung the meat in the trees todry, but it rotted because there wasno sun. One day, Dima decided to visit Owl.When they served food, Dimawondered why Owl's food tasted sogood. He wondered if it wasbecause the food grew in the sunand it was cooked in fire.Secretly, Dima made a plan. Hedecided to dance. He wantedeveryone at Owl's place to gatheraround him and see him dance. Hewas a good dancer. Owl and hisfamily admired the beautifuldancing. When it grew dark, Owl decided tofetch the sun from his house so thathe could still watch Dima's dancing.Owl kept the sun in an animal skinbag inside his hut. He carried thesun out from his house and held ithigh up above his shoulders.Now it was light. Everyone couldsee far into the distance. Sooneveryone was dancing in the light ofthe sun. Dima crept closer to the sun whilehe was dancing. Owl held on to thesun but after a while he forgotabout it because he enjoyed thedancing so much. He saw howbeautifully Dima danced. He toowanted to dance like this. Suddenly, Dima took his fightingstick and hit the sun into the airlike a ball. The sun travelled so farthat it remained forever in the sky.It gave everyone light all day. Dima ran away so fast that Owlcould not find him.He stayed far away for a long time.After a while, he disguised himselfand went back to Owl's place.The children recognised him andsaid:"There is the man who stole oursun!"The adults did not agree with thechildren and said,"No, this is not the man who stoleour sun." They saw that this man was an olddancer. He wore a lot of beadsaround his body. They were magicdancing beads and they madepeople dance.It was not long before everyone wasdancing. They danced the wholeafternoon, until the sun began toset. It became too dark to see themagic dancer. Owl said to his wife, "Go and look inmy bag and fetch the moon."Owl held the moon high above hisshoulders and it lit up the darknessfor all to see the dance. While theywere dancing, Dima moved closerand closer to the moon, for he hada plan. He took his fighting stick and hit themoon high up into the air. Onceagain, he ran away from Owl. Thistime he stayed away for a very longtime, until Owl's family forgot allabout him. Dima disguised himself again andreturned to Owl's place.This time he wanted Owl's fire. Owlhad the firesticks hanging aroundhis neck.Dima joined Owl under a tree andthe two men started playing an oldclapping game called gi. They clapped and clapped and asthey clapped some more, Owl'sfiresticks started jumping aroundhis chest to the rhythm of theclapping. Clap-clap, clap-clap.Dima tried to grab the firesticks, butOwl threw them over his neck sothat they hung across his back.They clapped the whole day long. The rhythm of the clappingmade Owl forget all about the firesticks.When they swung around onto his chest once more, Dima grabbedthe firesticks and ran away.Owl and his family ran after Dima, but he made a clever plan. Hehad a bag full of thorns and threw them onto the ground behindhim. This stopped Owl and his family from chasing him. They couldnot cross the thorns on the path. Dima could not wait to make fire.He rubbed and rubbed the sticks.He blew and blew the ember in alittle dry grass until a tiny flameappeared. The fire grew and lit thewhole veld and each time theflames reached a tree, Dima said,"From now on people will be able tomake a fire with each tree onearth." A long time passed. When Dimafinally returned to Owl's place, hefound no one but a little boy playingwith wooden animals.Dima asked the boy to show himwhere they kept their water. Theboy led him to the place of water.Dima saw the big djaba, the hugeclay pot in which the family storedwater.Dima pretended to leave for his home, but he secretly turnedround to the place of water. He turned the huge pot over so thatthe water started flowing on the ground.Dima quickly jumped over the flowing water to the other side.Then he was safely across the river of water where Owl could notfind him. This is why the whole earth hasrivers full of water today.This is why we have the sun, moonand fire, because of the magicianDima. Story notesIn 2003, Katunga Carimbwe told this version of the Dima and Owlorigin story to Titu Mangumbu and Marlene Winberg in theNorthern Cape Province of South Africa while he was busy paintingon a canvas. Mangumbu, Mahongo and Winberg translated it andretold the story in this written version with as few alterations aspossible. His elders told the story to him during his childhood inMavinga, Angola, where he was born in 1958.Most of the episodes in the Dima and Owl myth have a widedistribution in the extensive area of southern Africa and theKalahari whose original inhabitants speak !Xun and other closelyrelated languages, although the names and identities of thetrickster, Dima, and his adversary change from area to area.The "clapping game" mentioned in our version, Dima and Owl, isstill current among the !xun, the Nharo, and possibly othercommunities of Kalahari San. This story depicts Dima as a culturehero and transformer of the primeval world into the present world.He achieves this with words, "From now on people will be able tomake a fire with each tree on earth."The Manyeka Arts Trust holds a !Xun audio telling of this story byMeneputo Mnaunga Maneka in archive.

The lion was the king of the jungle.Everyone shivered and shook when he roared. He had a terrible toothache since two days.“Maharaj, get this tooth extracted,” suggested the monkey, the jungle physician.“Alright,” agreed the lion. Who would extract the lion's tooth? They were all terrified of him!“Maharaj, I will give you a kick with my hind legs. The tooth will pop out,” said the foolish donkey. “You will dare to kick the king?” roared the lion peevishly.The donkey tucked his tail between his legs and ran off. The elephant, cheetah, bear and deer were all worried.Who would stick their hand into the lion's mouth? Two days passed. The toothache was getting unbearable.“Should I take a look?” asked the mouse one night when the lion and he were alone.“Alright,” said the lion and opened his mouth wide. “Oh! There is a lot of dirt trapped between your teeth!” said the mouse taking a peek inside. Using his sharp teeth, he cleaned out the lion's teeth. The lion felt much better. “Maharaj, please clean your teeth everyday, or else your teeth will rot,” said the wise little mouse. “Yes, you are right. But please don't tell anybody or they will say their king doesn't keep clean...” pleaded the lion. "Alright," laughed the mouse. The lion also laughed.

This is Lekishon.Lekishon is callinghis dog. Lekishon and his dogare going to grazethe animals.The sun is hot. Lekishon and his dogare thirsty and hungry. They go to lookfor water. Lekishon loses trackof his cows. Lekishon starts to cry. He decides to gohome with his dog. The cows foundthe way home!Lekishon and his dogare very happy.

Khajuria village was suffering from Ramlila fever. It was nothing new, as Kallu said, they got it every year. The fever usually started a month before Dussehra. As the low, dark grey monsoon clouds drifted away and the sky turned a glittering blue, there were festivities in the air and everyone began talking about Masterji and the Ramlila.Everywhere in the village, at Dharampal's chai shop, in the vegetable fields, at the grocery store, in Moti Dadi's courtyard and at the tube-well, there was a single question being asked.“What is Masterji planning to do this year?”Kallu often said admiringly, “Masterji is the producer, director, scriptwriter and music composer of Ramlila and only he knows what we will see this year.” Masterji was the head of the village school and the Khajuria Ramlila Party that put up a fantastic show every year. Of course, they couldn't do the whole Ramayana because that was a very long story, and Khajuria did not have enough actors. So Masterji had written the dialogues of some of the most important scenes, and he would pick a few of them to enact for a week before Dussehra. So Khajuria never knew which scenes they would see.A tent was put up in a corner of the field where Badri, the milkman kept his buffaloes. A stage was built with a bunch of wobbly folding tables they got from Jai Bhagwan's Tent House. The audience sat on the ground on durries and nowadays, as the village had electricity, they had both gas lamps and electric bulbs to light up the stage.From the first day, Kallu and his gang were hanging around the school building where rehearsals were held, hoping Masterji would give them something to do. In the gang were Kallu, his sister Munia, brother Shabbo and his best friend Damu and his sister Saru. Day after day, they sat and watched the rehearsals, and by the end they knew most of the dialogues by heart.Every year, Masterji would select scenes like the Sita swayamvar with Ram breaking the giant bow; then Kaikeyi and Manthara scheming to send Ram into exile and Dasaratha weeping and dying. Munia's favourite scene was of Laxman cutting off Surpanakha's nose and Ravan kidnapping Sita. Then there was Hanuman setting fire to Lanka, and finally the fantastic battle scenes with Ravan, Kumbhakarna and Meghnad fighting Ram, Laxman, Hanuman and their monkey army. This year, their begging had paid off and Masterji had let Kallu, Damu and Shabbo play monkeys in the vanar sena. They were acting in the final battle scene and had to wear shorts, have monkey face make-up and long tails. It was amazing fun as they jumped about waving tin maces and swords. It made the girls, Munia and Saru very envious.“It's sooo silly!” Saru said grimly as they headed for the school one morning. “Why can't girls act in the Ramlila?”“Did you see ‘Sita' last night?” Munia asked. “That boy studies in Kallu Bhaiya's class and he's starting to get a moustache...”“And his voice kept cracking,” Saru giggled. “I really think Billo Chachi would be just perfect as Sita.”“Yes she would! Now if her husband Dharam Chacha can play Ram, why can't she be Sita?”“She even asked Masterji, but he said that the Khajuria panchayat would stop the Ramlila if he took real women. Dhat!” Saru shook her head in disgust.“Anyway, tonight's Badri Bhaiya's big scene!” Munia gave a small skip of happiness. “I can't wait!”For Kallu and his gang, the best actor in the show was Badri, the mad buffalo man who always played Hanuman. He was short and stocky, had a head of unruly hair, a bushy moustache, big round eyes and a booming voice. So when he was on stage, strutting about yelling out his lines, even Ram and Laxman faded into the background.According to Kallu and his gang, the scene where Hanuman exchanges insults with Ravan and then sets Lanka on fire was an absolute super-hit scene. Masterji had written such fantastic dialogues for Ravan and Hanuman that the audience was totally hypnotized and listened to every word in breathless silence.That evening, the gang was among the earliest to arrive at the tent. Badri's buffaloes were tied nearby and according to Damu, they had to do ‘high jumps' over the pats of buffalo dung.“Second row from the front, middle of the row. Perfect!” said Shabbo, settling down on the durrie with a happy sigh.“Well, tomorrow we won't need the seats,” said Kallu, giving Munia and Saru a sneaky grin. “We boys will be on stage.”“Hah!” Munia shook her curly head. “All you do is jump around like idiots, and none of you have a single line to say.”“And Shabbo will be killed by Meghnad and just lie there flat on his back, like a log of wood,” added Saru with a giggle.“Do you know it takes real acting to play dead?” Shabbo asked hotly. “I have to breathe very, very slowly and keep my eyes shut tight!”“You'll get the award for the best dead monkey in Khajuria!” Damu grinned. As the sun set, the tent began to fill up.Backstage was a hive of activity, with everyone putting on their costumes and slapping on make-up. Dharampal was free tonight, as Ram did not appear in the scene, so he was busy doing the Hanuman make-up on Badri's face.“I wish you would shave off your moustache Badri,” he said. “It looks really odd. Hanuman on TV and films is always clean-shaven.”“Colour it brown and no one will know,” growled Badri.“I am NOT shaving it! FORGET IT!!” Then he held the sheets of dialogue before his face, squinted and grumbled, “Why does Masterji keep changing the dialogues every year?”“He's an artist and all artists are crazy anyway. This year in the Bharat milap scene, he wanted Ram and Bharat to sing a song,” said Dharampal.“A song?” repeated Badri.“Yes. It went - bhai bhai ka pyar amar rahe... something... something...” Dharampal laughed.“But you can't sing!” said Badri.“Exactly! And neither can Lattu, who's playing Bharat! He tried for two days to make us sing and then gave up. Thank God!” said Dharampal.Suddenly, Badri sat up and yelled at the top of his voice, making Dharampal jump, “Masterji! Masterji!”“Kya hua?” Masterji came running in a panic.“You wrote a song for Ram but not for Hanuman? And I can sing!” said Badri.“Arrey Badri!” Masterji stuffed a paan into his mouth, “Hanuman does not sing.”“And what will you sing anyway?” asked Dharampal carefully painting Badri's nose a bright red.“Hanuman-Ravan ki dushmani amar rahe?”“Heh... heh... ho... ho...” Masterji walked away laughing, spraying paan juice in the air.As Dharampal began to attach the tail to Badri's bright yellow shorts, nobody noticed the thoughtful look on Badri-Hanuman's brown face... An hour later, the curtains were dragged away to reveal Ravan's royal durbar in Lanka, and it looked really gorgeous with carpets, curtains and thrones, all supplied by Jai Bhagwan's tent house. Jai Bhagwan was playing Kumbhakarna because he was the fattest man in the village.The scene was going beautifully and the audience was absorbed in the action. Ravan was being played by Chhotey Lal, the village wrestler and Mandodari by Narain, who was in class ten, wearing a pink and gold sari.Ravan looked really threatening with his rippling muscles, bushy eyebrows, curling moustache and big eyes. The only problem was that Chhotey wasn't very good at remembering the dialogues.“Masterji really struggled to make Chhotey remember his lines,” Damu whispered. “He mixes up everything.”“And then Masterji solved the problem!” Kallu grinned.The others turned to look at him, “How?”“Watch Narain's lips, he's prompting Chhotey.Masterji made him learn the lines of both Mandodari and Ravan!” whispered Kallu.“Sooo clever!” breathed Munia in admiration.“Here he comes!” said Saru with an excited wriggle as Hanuman was dragged on to the stage by the rakshasas. They leaned forward, eyes glued to Hanuman, who was all tied up in thick ropes but stood defiantly tall, glaring angrily at Ravan.“Who is this?” Mandodari whispered to Chhotey, prompting away.“Umm...” Ravan bent his head towards her, listened and then said loudly, “Who is this?”A rakshasa stepped forward, “We caught him in the Ashokavan, Maharaj! He was talking to Devi Sita.”“What...” prompted Mandodari.“WHAT!” shouted Ravan springing up, suddenly remembering the rest of his lines, “How did he get inside? What was he doing there?” and he waved his arms in rage.Munia gave a soft giggle, and then as other people spotted Ravan's face, the rest of the audience also began to laugh. As he was waving his arms, Ravan had dislodged one end of his false moustache, and now it was dangling over his lips like a black earthworm.From where he sat, Kallu could see Masterji in the wings frantically waving his arms and pointing to Ravan's face. About to start his lines, Hanuman turned to look at the audience in surprise. This was a serious scene. What was making them laugh?“Kya hua?” he asked, peering into the dark. “Why are you laughing?”“Ravan's moustache is falling off, Badri Bhaiya!” someone kindly informed him from the back.“Oh ho! Sorry!” Ravan jumped nervously and quickly fixed the moustache back in place, and then turned a sweaty face towards Mandodari, “What do I say next?” In his panic he forgot to whisper, and everyone began to laugh again.In the wings, Masterji was chewing his paan faster and faster...“Tell me who you are... you thieving monkey!” Mandodari prompted.“What?” Ravan was still a bit flustered. “Theek! Tell me who you are... you thieving monkey!” And he finally turned to address Hanuman, “Where have you come from?”“Here it comes!” Shabbo leaned forward eagerly, “My favourite dialogue.”Masterji had written some of the important dialogues in rhyme, and the bit where Hanuman introduces himself to Ravan was the best poetry Shabbo had ever heard. And Badri's acting was always quite superb!He would stand tall, thump his chest and ask angrily, “Thieving monkey? Who are you to call me that? Do you know who I am?” and then turning to face the audience, he would launch into the poem that Shabbo knew by heart...Main hooon Ramji ka chelaMain hoon Hanuman albelaTu hai Ravan balwaanKar du tujhko pareshanThen he would pause dramatically, thump his chest again and say in ringing tones...Main hoon pavan putra Hanumaaan!As they waited breathlessly, Hanuman glared at Ravan and shouted, “Do you know who I am?” He turned to face the audience, cleared his throat and suddenly Badri began to sing!Main hoooon Ramjiii kaaa chelaaa...“He's SINGING?” Saru's eyes were wide with shock. Main hoon... Hanumaaan... albelaaa... Hanuman sang on...“He's good!” Kallu was laughing in delight. “Badri Bhaiya can really sing.”In the wings, Masterji was standing absolutely still, as if struck by lightning. He was staring at his star actor as Badri sang away, and in shock he had forgotten to chew his paan.Badri sang, eyes raised to the roof and one arm raised like a filmi hero. His tune had a nice rhythm, and the audience began to clap, and even Narain forgot he was on stage and joined in. One rakshasa was swaying his hips in a really funny dance. Badri began to smile, and with a happy shake of his head, he decided to sing the whole song once again!As he got to the last line, he waved to the crowd to join in and then sang out, Main hoon pavan putra...And the audience joined in a loud shout, Hanumaaaan!From the field outside, Badri's loyal buffaloes joined in the chorus, “Mooo! Moooooo!”As they headed for home tiredly, Kallu declared with a huge, happy sigh, “What a super-hit Ramlila!”

In a village on the slopes of Mount Kenya in East Africa, a little girl worked in the fields with her mother. Her name was Wangari. Wangari loved being outside. In her family's food garden she broke up the soil with her machete. She pressed tiny seeds into the warm earth. Her favourite time of day was just after sunset. When it got too dark to see the plants, Wangari knew it was time to go home.She would follow the narrow paths through the fields, crossing rivers as she went. Wangari was a clever child and couldn't wait to go to school. But her mother and father wanted her to stay and help them at home.When she was seven years old, her big brother persuaded her parents to let her go to school. She liked to learn! Wangari learnt more and more with every book she read. She did so well at school that she was invited to study in the United States of America.Wangari was excited! She wanted to know more about the world. At the American university Wangari learnt many new things. She studied plants and how they grow. And she remembered how she grew: playing games with her brothers in the shade of the trees in the beautiful Kenyan forests. The more she learnt, the more she realised that she loved the people of Kenya. She wanted them to be happy and free.The more she learnt, the more she remembered her African home. When she had finished her studies, she returned to Kenya. But her country had changed. Huge farms stretched across the land. Women had no wood to make cooking fires. The people were poor and the children were hungry. Wangari knew what to do. She taught the women how to plant trees from seeds. The women sold the trees and used the money to look after their families. The women were very happy. Wangari had helped them to feel powerful and strong. As time passed, the new trees grew into forests, and the rivers started flowing again. Wangari's message spread across Africa. Today, millions of trees have grown from Wangari's seeds. Wangari had worked hard. People all over the world took notice, and gave her a famous prize. It is called the Nobel Peace Prize, and she was the first African woman ever to receive it. Wangari died in 2011, but we can think of her every time we see a beautiful tree. Kwenye yeelali zase fama eKenya, kwakukho nintombazana encinane egamalingu Wangari. uWangari wayethanda ukuchitha ixesha elininzi kunye nomama wakhe esitiyenisakowabo betyala.UWangari wayekuthanda ukudlala phandle esoloko esesitiyenietyala imbewu . Elona xesha wayelithanda kwakusemalanga, kuthi xa sele kuqalisaukubamnyama engasaziboni eizityalo ahambe agoduke. UWangari wayengumntwana ohlakaniphileyo kakhulu kodwa abazali bakhebabengafuni ukuba aye esikolweni. Babefuna ahlale kunye nabo ekhaya.Ubhuti kaWangari waabacenga abazali ukuba bavumele uWangari aye esikolweni. UWangari uyile esikolweni, wayekuthanda ukufunda and eqhuba kakuhle.Wayefuna ukufunda banzi ngelizwe lakhe kunye nezityalo nemithi. Uthe akugiba amabanga ache aphantshi wawonga ukuba ayokuqhuba izifundozakhe eMelika.Ufike eMelika wafunda banzi ngezityalo, ukuba utyala njani nokubauzikhathalele kanjani. UWangari uye wabona ukuba uyakuthanda ukufunda ngezityalo nokuncedaabantu , wayefuna ukubuyela kowabo eKenya ayobancedisana nabantubasekuhlaleni. Uye waabuyela kwikhaya lakhe eKenya. Uthe akafika kowabo zabe izintozitshintshile. Abantu basekuhlaleni babesokola bengenamali yokuhoya amakhayawabo. Uye wadibana nabo bonke abasetyhini ebefundisa ngezityalo nokutyala.Wabaxelela ukuba bangakhulisa imithi, bayithengise ukuze bafumane imaliyokuzihoya nokuthenga ukutya ekhaya. Enguhambeni kwethuba iye yakhula imithi yangamahlathi. Umyalezo kaWangariudume kwi Afrika yonke. Kunamhlanje amawaka namakhulu emithi ikhuliswayimbewu kaWangari. UWangari udume kwizwelonke.Wawongwa ngeNobel Prizengenxa yomsebenzi wakhe.Wayengowokuqala umntuomnyama kwabasetyhinibaseAfrika ukufumana lembasa. UWangari walandulela eli ngonyaka ka 2011, kodwa qho xasibona imitihisiyamkhumbula.

Sona's mother was making prints on a sari with a block.Sona said, “Ma, I want to make prints too.” Ma gave Sona a piece of cloth and some colours. The room was full of things that helped in making printed cloth. Ma said, “Sona, why don't you sit outside and print? Listen carefully to the sounds of my printing.” Sona sat at a small table outside. When there was no sound from the room Sona knew that Ma was quietly putting colours on the block.Then Sona would also colour her block. When she heard the sound thupp, Sona would press her block on to the cloth. Silence-thupp, silence-thupp, Ma and Sona worked together. But there was another small sound that Sona could hear, chun-chanan-chun, that made her smile. After some time Ma called out, “Sona, have you seen my keys? I cannot find them.” Sona went to Ma. She held her around her waist. “Sona, this is no time to play!” Ma said looking around.“I have to take out the colours from the cupboard. I need the keys. Try to find them please!” Sona pulled the end of Ma's odhni* that was tucked into her waist.Chun-chanan-chanwent the keys tied to a corner of the odhni, chun-chanan-chan.*Piece of cloth draped like a shawl. “Oh! How did you know the keys were here?” Ma asked in surprise.“Ma, I was listening carefully,” laughed Sona.“Silence-thupp-chunn,silence-thupp-chunn!”“You are such a smart girl, Sona!” said Ma.

One day, Sringeri Srinivas, the farmer, set out with his best cows to the cattle fair. He had to walk along the new national highway that had come up near his village. That big road had many cars and trucks. Every driver seemed to be honking loudly.Paoon! Ponn! Paaa! The cows did not like the noise. They decided to go back home. He waved his hands at the drivers to stop the noise. This did not help. Seeing him, they just honked louder. The noise of the horns went straight into his head. And it stayed there. It was a bad day for him. He went back home with his cows. MOOO! The cows were happy to be in the cowshed again. But the noise simply would not go away from his head.Paoon! Ponn! Paaa!It kept on playing like a band of untrained musicians.Other noises around him soon joined in the chorus. Even the sounds that he heard daily suddenly became too loud for Sringeri Srinivas. The ribbit ribbit of the frogs was noisy. The cicadas and their kirkk kirkk were too loud.Sringeri Srinivas wanted the hooting owls to be sent away. He was angry at the koyals for screeching loudly at 4 am. And at the cows that mooed at 5 am. And whoever asked the roosters to act as alarm clocks? And that stupid tiger! Enough of his roaring! Poor Sringeri Srinivas. His ears had become raw, like a fresh wound.He tried hard to keep things quiet. He shouted at the children if they talked loudly. He glared at his wife Parvatamma when the pressure cooker whistled and whistled. Sringeri Srinivas only wanted silence. Everyone tried to help.Parvatamma stopped scolding the children. The children played cricket quietly with a very soft ball. The cows did not moo any more. The cicadas and owls moved to another village.Even the tiger stopped growling. Yet Sringeri Srinivas was not happy. He could hear the noise of everyone trying to be silent! “I will go away from this place,” he declared one morning.“Please don't,” said Parvatamma. “Where will you find silence?”Sringeri Srinivas simply frowned at her and started to walk away from his village. Soon, he came close to a new town. He watched the noisy people in the noisy town. A young man passed by. He had some wires dangling from his ears. Sringeri Srinivas could also hear a ‘ting dang ting dang' sound. The man looked very happy. He did not even notice that trucks were blaring horns nearby. “What is this?” he asked the man.“These are my headphones. Here, try them on,” the young man said. He put them on for Sringeri Srinivas. Music! Ting dang ting dang. No horns.“Aha! This is just what I need,” he said. Sringeri Srinivas went into the town. He bought a pair of the best headphones and put them on. At last... no more noise! He returned to his village, with his big new headphones. His wife was happy to see him. Sringeri Srinivas gave her a big smile. His children helped him to connect the new headphones to some good, happy music. Now, when Sringeri Srinivas gets very angry at the cars or even at the frogs, he puts on his headphones and listens to the silence. Or he listens to good music. In the village, the cows are mooing again. The koyals have come back. Ribbit ribbit, go the frogs. Kirkk kirkk, sing the cicadas. But the cars on the highway are still making too much noise.Paoon! Ponn! Paaa! It is not a good sound.Sringeri Srinivas has to take his cows to the fair soon. Will they want headphones too?

One day, Rabbit was walking by the riverside. Hippo was there too, going for a stroll and eating some nice green grass. Hippo didn't see that Rabbit was there and she accidentally stepped on Rabbit's foot.Rabbit started screaming at Hippo, "You Hippo! Can't you see that you're stepping on my foot?" Hippo apologised to Rabbit, "I'm so sorry. I didn't see you. Please forgive me!"But Rabbit wouldn't listen and he shouted at Hippo, "You did that on purpose! Someday, you'll see! You're going to pay!" Rabbit went to find Fire and said, "Go, burn Hippo when she comes out of the water to eat grass. She stepped on me!"Fire answered, "No problem, Rabbit, my friend. I'll do just what you ask." Later, Hippo was eating grass far from the river when, "Whoosh!" Fire burst into flame. The flames began to burn Hippo's hair. Hippo started to cry and ran for the water. All her hair was burned off by the fire.Hippo kept crying, "My hair has burned in the fire! My hair is all gone! My beautiful hair!" Rabbit was happy that Hippo's hair was burned.And to this day, for fear of fire, the hippo never goes far from the water.

I can run with it. I can jump with it. I can dance with it. I can swim with it. I can skip with it. I can kick with it. I can escape with it. But I can never fly withit.

Phani is always late. Or not where he is supposed to be.“Why does your teacher say you're always late for school, Phani?” asks his father. “You leave home quite early.”“I can't help it, Baba,” Phani says. His mother wants to know why he is sitting in front of the TV every evening instead of playing with the other children.“I can't help it, Ma,” says Phani. Why not, his parents want to know. So do his teachers, friends and his sister, who had once asked him to post a letter. “Why can't you help it, Phani?” they ask.“It's because of my chappals,” Phani mumbles. “Speak up, child! Stand up straight, shoulders back!”That was his class teacher. So Phani explains. Every time he is on his way to school, his chappals know a better way to get there. Sometimes, they lead by the mango tree where there are lovely green mangoes. Sometimes, when his feet are sweating all over the chappals, they take him to school by a road that just happens to be near a clear, cool pond. And the chappals prefer to watch TV than be hurled at a pile of seven stones. Anybody should know that!“Next time your chappals don't feel like posting a letter, at least let me know!” says Phani's sister angrily. Nobody believes Phani.Today, Phani's mother has something for him. Phani is very happy. He opens the box and takes out a new pair of chappals! His mother is smiling... But Phani doesn't look very happy. I wonder why!

Prosy wanted a pussy cat. Prosy's family went to visit the pussy cats. Prosy wanted this cat.It was too big for her. Tim wanted this kitten.It was too small for him. Mum wanted this kitten.It was too quick for her. Everyone liked this kitten. They took the kitten. Everyone is happy with the new pussy cat.

I do not know why I woke up very early todaySoon I saw that it was a strange new day! Nothing at all was as it really should beAnd I could hear someone shouting loudly at me! Our cot had climbed right up the wallAnd my little clock had grown very tall! Our umbrella was twirling madly round and roundMy red and blue cap was making a clicking sound! What on earth has happened to our little room?I fear I am going to faint very soon! The fan has turned into a big octopusMy sister's doll is eating dal and rice without a fuss. Our cat is sitting up in Papa's chairAnd look! A mouse is reading the news on the air! In the mirror - Aah! See! I am seven feet high!I know I am going to loudly cry! But now look! Here comes a magic man“Sorry! Sorry!” he says, “I will do what I can!” “Yes, yes! It was I who made this little messIt was not so nice of me, I do confess!” So Abra-ca-da-dabra chin chin choo!Room! Get back in order - one - three - two!

I am a big girl. I go out of the house alone. It is so dark! Is someone there? Who is it? Oh, it is only the cat. I am not afraid. I can see a big dark thing outside! What is it? Oh, it is only the well. I am not afraid. And that sound! Creak creak creak! What is it? Only my sister drawing water from the well! I am not afraid. I hear footsteps! Who is it? Who is it? It is my mother. She has come home from the fields. I am a big girl now. I am not afraid of anything!

Once upon a time there lived a cat in our home. The rats were very terrible. Thewould play in the food. The cat ran after the rats and they hid in their holes. They also ate people's toes. They also ate our food. They ate our fish,sweet potatoes, and other things. One day, thecat ate some rats. All the rats hid in their cavesfor some short days. Then the rats came back. So we tried to spread poison, but the rats didn't stop.We also trapped the rats and we killed some rats. But they did not stop. We could not stop the rats. The rats were winners and wewere losers. This is the end of the story. Bye, cat and rats!

Once upon a time in a bigpalace, there lived a king andhisbeautiful daughter, theprincess. Elephant lived in a house onone side of the palace.Chameleonlived on the other side. At this time, there was a terribledrought across the land.The king had an idea and calledhis two neighbours to thepalace. The kind said to Elephant andChameleon, "I want you tostompon the ground with your feetuntil water comes out."The king promised the princessin marriage to the one whosucceeded. Chameleon had no hope sincehe was very small.Elephant was extremely happysince he was so big andpowerful.Elephant went to the field andstarted stomping on theground. A lot of dust came, but nowater.Elephant stomped on theground until water was almostcoming out, but he was tootired.He gave Chameleon a chanceto try. Chameleon started stomping onthe ground. After a short while,water came out.People could not believe theireyes! So the King gave the beautifulprincess to Chameleon.Elephant went home annoyed.

I am a big girl.I can help other people. After school, I like to feed my brother.He loves it. When I have a holiday,I help my mother to get ready to go to the office. In the evening, I help my father in his shop. But sometimes my mother says, “Please, do not help me!” And sometimes my father says,“Thank you, but please do not help me today.” Sometimes they both tell me to sit in one place.I like to read a book then! I like to help my grandmother.She tells me stories. My brother is still small.He cannot help at all. But I am a big girl. I can help other people.

One day old Mrs. Chang in the village got a letter. It was from her son Chen, who lived far away in Beijing. She could not read, so she waited in front of her house for someone to come by who could read out the letter to her. After some time, Warrior Wen came by, swinging his exquisitely carved staff. Old Mrs. Chang stopped him and said, “O brave warrior, could you do me a favour and read out this letter from my son to me?” Warrior Wen immediately agreed. He took the letter from the old lady and opened it. Mrs. Chang sat down in eager anticipation of news from her dear son. But one look at the letter and Warrior Wen began to wail loudly.“What is it, Warrior Wen? What is it? Tell me, is something wrong with my son?” asked old Mrs. Chang anxiously. But Warrior Wen didn't say a word – he only looked up at her and began to wail even louder than before. Poor Mrs. Chang was sure that something dreadful had happened to her son. Tears welled up in her eyes and she began wailing loudly too. Plish... plosh... plish... plosh... the tears rolled down the cheeks of the brave warrior and the old lady.Plish... plosh...plish...plosh...the tears rolled down the cheeks of the brave warrior and the old lady. A little later, Peddler Peng came by. And what do you think he did when he saw the old lady and the warrior wailing in unison? Well, he sat down with them and began crying too! What a racket they created!The three wailers sobbibng their hearts out... Waaaaaaaa... baaaaaaaawwww...... boooooooo....... Hoooooooo.......Hearing the cacophonic cries, Master Ming, whose school was just around the corner from Mrs. Chang's house, came rushing out. Several curious kids followed suit – some giggling, some chattering, some whispering, but all delighted that their class had been interrupted!When Master Ming saw the weeping chorus, he ran up to them worriedly. What could have gone so terribly wrong, he wondered, as he sprinted down the road.“Booooooooo...... hoooooooooooo.... Waaaaaaaaaaaa.....” came the response.Master Ming was beginning to lose his patience. “Out with it you howling hyenas!” he thundered. Taken aback by his roar that was even louder than their waaaaaa...ils, Peddler Peng was the first to answer. “Sniff... sob... Just a year ago,” he said, and wiped his running nose, “I had made a hundred earthen pots to be sold in the market. But as I was on my way, the donkey that was carrying them got frightened by his own shadow and started to bray loudly!And my pots, they all came tumbling down one by one and broke into a million pieces. Not even one beautiful pot was left unbroken. I was so upset. I wanted to cry and cry and cry then, but I couldn't do it because I had to immediately think up ways to make up for my losses. So I postponed it.Today, when I saw the two of them crying, I was reminded of that heartbreaking episode and decided to cry for my precious, pretty pots. Waaaaaa....” Before Master Ming could react, Mrs. Chang spoke. “I got a letter from my son in Beijing this morning. I don't know how to read, so I asked Warrior Wen to read it out for me. But he began crying as soon as he opened the letter. Something terrible must have happened to my son! Something awful, horrible, unimaginable... O my poor Chen, poor, poor Chen.... Booo.... Hoooo.....”Even as an exasperated Master Ming consoled old Mrs. Chang, Warrior Wen bravely fought back his tears and opened his mouth. “To tell you the truth, Master, I didn't read my books very well when I was in school. I never paid any attention to my teachers and to my lessons, so I still don't know how to read. I am so ashamed of myself! Bawwwwww..........” he wailed.Master Ming was dumbstruck! LANTERN IN A JIFFY!Do you know that paper was invented in china, where this story comes from? The Chinese are famous for their paper crafts, which they use as decorations at home. Want to your hand at a paper craft too? Well, here's a simple, colourful lantern that you can make with just paper, scissors and glue. Make as many of them as you wish and brighten up your home!YOU NEED:A. 2 sheets of coloured paper (21 cm x 29 cm each)B. Scissors C. Glue HOW TO MAKE THE PAPER LANTERN:1. Fold the paper in half lengthwise.2. With the scissors, make slits along the folded edge as shown.3. Unfold the paper.4. Place the paper lengthwise. Lift the right edge and place it over the left. 5. Stick the edges together to form a circle.6. Now cut a strip of paper and stick it on the top as shown. Your paper lantern is almost ready.7. Cut a few more strips and stick them along the lower edge of the lantern as shown.Your paper lantern is ready to be hung in your home!

Once upon a time, there was aweak man. This man was called Wamaŋe. Wamaŋe did not want to work atall. He was an idler. Wamaŋe had no good clothes butrugs. This man had no hut to live in. He slept outside at night andwatched the moon and stars asthey gave out light. One day, it rained heavily The night was very cold. Wamaŋe felt very cold.He started thinking of making a hutfor himself. He sung,"Tomorrow I will buildmyself a hut" ×4In the morning when the sunstarted shinning clearly, Wamaŋe became warm. Hechanged the song."It is hot why should I build a hut?"×4

Hare and Hyenawere friends.They decidedto farm potatoestogether. They worked hardon the farm. After work,Hare and Hyenaplayed together. But sometimesHyena chased Hare.Hare wouldrun away. One day,Hare asked,"If you are my friend,why do you chase me?" Then Hare asked,"But if you arenot my friend,why do we workand play together?" A friend is someonewho is always a friend.

Tok-tok tok-tok!Raja Petuchand of Sonapur buried his head under the pillow. The butter chicken he had enjoyed a little too much last night was already giving him trouble. Now this awful noise! “Do you have to get the palace work done at this hour?” he grumbled to queen Suruchi. But she was snoring peacefully next to him in the king-sized bed, dreaming of the next palace festival.Tok-tok... tok-tok! “What nonsense!” said Petuchand. “I am the king and I forbid this tok, tok sound!”He got up and opened the door, adjusting the royal robes around his ample stomach. The sentries were looking around nervously. “What is this commotion?” the king asked his bodyguards angrily.“No idea, sire,” said the guards, shaking a little bit. “We've been searching for the person making the noise. But we have not found anything.”“Idiots,” the king grumbled under his breath. “If you don't find out what it is in the next five minutes, I'm firing all of you,” he shouted.Tok-tok... tok-tok! Immediately the guards called Ranveer Singh, the captain of the army. He was six feet tall and three feet wide and his long curling mustache frightened everybody. “Sir, please help us find what is making this tok-tok sound or we will all lose our jobs,” they pleaded with him.“Fools!” Ranveer Singh muttered. He collected a platoon of soldiers.Tok-tok... tok-tok!“Ready, men? Go find this intruder right now!” he ordered. The men marched all around the palace searching, searching, searching. They looked into all the windows, scaring the sleeping children. They opened all the boxes and tapped all the walls, creating so much noise themselves that nobody in the palace got any sleep that night. Tok-tok tok-tok! The next morning the king overslept and was late to the durbar. His first case was about two men who said they owned the same cow.“It's mine,” said the first man.“No, I've been milking her for two years,” said the other. “Oh, really? I've been offering sweets made from her milk to the goddess for the last three years,” said the first.“My head hurts,” said the king to his prime minister, Chintamani. “And last night's butter chicken is still squawking in my stomach. Just cut the cow in two and give half to each. I want them to stop complaining.”“Uh sire, it is a cow,” whispered Chintamani. “Cutting it in two might not be a good idea.”One of his jobs was to make sure the king did not issue any crazy orders, which Petuchand was quite capable of doing when he was hungry or tired. The worry had made Chintamani bald before his time. “Of course,” said the king, slapping his forehead. “Well, how am I supposed to be a just and wise king when I haven't slept all night?”Raja Petuchand told Chintamani about the tok-tok sound.“I have just the person to help,” said the minister with a smile of relief. That night he bought Pasupati the zoo-keeper to the palace after everyone had gone to bed.Tok-tok tok-tok!When the zoo-keeper heard the sound he rushed home and brought back a cage and a bowl of worms. Pasupati then had the royal carpenter cut a hole in the wall nearest the sound. He put the bowl of worms near the hole. Everybody stepped back and waited silently. A small red and brown bird with a long yellow beak stepped out of the hole and jumped into the bowl.Swoosh! The bird was in the cage. The king was amazed.“Such a tiny bird and such a loud noise! Thank you everyone. You have done a great service to the country.”The next morning the king reached the durbar bright and early. Pasupati the zoo-keeper was standing in front of him.“Sire, I cannot keep the bird.” “What happened?” asked the king.“The tok-tok noise kept all the animals in the zoo awake. They are all sleeping now and the children visiting the zoo are very disappointed.”“Hmmm,” said the king. He wondered if the bird would make a good cutlet.“No sir, we cannot kill the bird,” said Chintamani firmly. He was good at guessing the king's thoughts.“It is very rare and must be considered a lucky bird.” “Then what do we do?” asked the king. “If the animals cannot bear the noise then my citizens certainly cannot. And we cannot have a country full of sleepless people.”Another minister stepped forward bravely. “Sire, I would be willing to keep the bird. I have a newborn baby boy and his crying keeps us up at night anyway.”“No, no, we need to find a better place,” said Chintamani. “Aha!” he exclaimed suddenly. “We need to find a place for the tok-tok bird where nobody must sleep at night. I have the perfect plan, sire!” he said. And that is how the tok-tok bird ended far away from the palace and the towns of Sonapur, giving company to the border patrol. It kept the soldiers awake every night and did its job so well that it became the official bird of the country. The kingdom's enemies could never get by the alert Sonapur soldiers and grumbled that the country should change its name to Jaagpur instead.

Once upon a time there was a little girl called Tselane. After her father died, she lived alone with her mother. One day her mother decided that they would move to another village to start a new life. Tselane did not want to leave her old village and she started to cry. Her mother was scared to leave her daughter alone because giants lived in the caves nearby that village. But Tselane cried so much that her mother finally agreed that she could stay behind. Tselane's mother told her that she would bring food every day. She said, "I will sing a song so that you know it's me. Don't open the door for anyone else, my child." She sang the song: "Tselane my child! Tselane my child! Come out and eat your porridge! Come out and eat your porridge!" The next morning Tselane's mother came to the house with food. She sang their special song. Tselane opened the door and took her mother's delicious food. Then her mother kissed her and went back to her new home. A giant was hiding in the bushes, watching and listening to Tselane and her mother! After Tselane switched off her light that night, she heard a deep voice singing her mother's song outside the door. "Tselane my child! Come out and eat your porridge!" sang the giant. "Go away! You are not my mother! You are a giant!" shouted Tselane. The giant walked away disappointed and disappeared into the caves. Every morning and every evening, Tselane's mother brought her food. Every morning and every evening, the giant also came. But each time Tselane sent him away. She recognised his deep voice as he sang her mother's song. One day the giant had an idea. "I can change my voice to resemble that of Tselane's mother!" he said to himself. He made a fire and threw a round smooth stone into the flames. When the stone was very hot and red, he took it out of the fire and swallowed it! "Kudutlu!" went the hot stone down the throat of the giant. The giant started singing. He jumped for joy when he heard his voice sounding as sweet as that of Tselane's mother! Early the next day, the giant went to Tselane's house early in the morning. When he got to the door of the house, he sang: "Tselane my child! Tselane my child! Come out and eat your porridge! Come out and eat your porridge!" Tselane was excited to hear her mother's voice. She opened the door, and there was the giant! She tried to close the door but the giant was too quick. He grabbed Tselane and threw her into a sack. The happy giant walked back to his cave."What a beautiful day! If only I had traditional beer, it would go so well with my dinner tonight," he said to himself. A little later in the morning, Tselane's mother came as usual to bring her daughter food. She sang her song, but Tselane did not come out. She sang her song again, but still Tselane did not come out. After singing for the third time, she kicked the door open. Tselane was nowhere to be found. Her mother realised what had happened, and she quickly made a plan. She poured some beer into a big calabash, put it on her head, and walked down to the caves. "Good evening, giant!" called Tselane's mother. The giant smelled the delicious smell of traditional beer and opened the door. Tselane's mother said, "I was passing through and I heard you singing so beautifully. I am on my way to another village for a party." "Let me pour you some beer before I continue on my journey," said Tselane's mother. The giant was not going to let the opportunity of drinking traditional beer pass him by! He invited Tselane's mother into his cave. The giant drank the beer in one great gulp. Tselane's mother gave him more and more – and more – until the calabash was empty. The giant was soon so drunk that he fell asleep on the floor. As soon as Tselane's mother heard the giant's loud snores, she opened the sack lying in the cave. Tselane jumped out of the sack, and they ran home as fast as they could. From then on Tselane stayed with her mother at the new village. They lived happily and were never again bothered by giants.

Eyes are red. Why, oh why? Nose just runs. Wipe it dry. Cheeks feel hot. Touch me not! Throat is sore. No water nearby! Mouth goes round. Why, oh why? Air all gone. Why, oh why? Now, what shall we do? Use the thread. Tie the balloon. You blow the balloon. Your turn now.

Pehelwaan ji exercised every day. One day, he wanted to be a player. He went to the field and said to the children, “I want to play with you.”The children were scared of him. So they could not say no to him! When Pehelwaan kicked the ball it almost burst. When he kicked it again, the goalkeeper went flying! The children did not know what to do. Gappu said, “Pehelwaan ji, let us play cricket.”Pehelwaan ji said, “Yes, but I will bat first.” Gappu ran, and jumped high as he threw the ball. Pehelwaan ji lifted the bat. He lost his balance. The ball hit his head. Ouch! Pehelwaan said, “Now, I will bowl.”Gappu said, “Fine Pehelwaan ji, but please do not jump high when you bowl. That will scare me.” Pehelwaan did not listen to Gappu. He jumped high. He lost his balance and fell down. THUD! He got up and said, "I will field now."Gappu nodded his head. Gappu turned his bat this way and that. The ball went all over the field. Zipp, zapp, zipp, zoom. Pehelwaan ji huffed and puffed as he ran after it. OHH, AAAH, HMMPH. Pehelwaan ji was very tired.He pulled a face and said, “This is not for me! I will be the wicket-keeper.” Gappu agreed. Gappu threw the ball up high. The batsman ducked. Pehelwaan ji could do nothing as the ball went straight into his mouth... GUPP! “Forget it. I don't want to play!” said Pehelwaan ji.He was in bad shape as he ran away. Gappu pulled out a new ball and everybody went back to the game peacefully.

Dinah likes a purpledress. My aunt likes an orangedress.Dad bought it for her. Jjajja likes a blue dress. Dan likes a red van The baby likes a yellow chair. Customers like red tomatoes. School children like blue tops forgames. My sister likes a yellowblouse. Jane likes a pink dress. My neighbor likes a yellow cottage.It looks nice. Insects like green places. My friend and I like green apple.

Anaya's most favorite thing in the world is her thumb. She loves her round, thick and blobby thumb as it sits in her mouth. She sucks it in bed, she sucks it in class and she sucks it on the swing. She sucks it all the time!Her parents don't like it much and are always saying, ‘Your thumb smells', ‘Anaya stop!', ‘Anaya don't!' Anaya is at the zoo today. Her parents do not look at her thumb since they are busy looking at the animals. Anaya sees an elephant. She spots a calf that is not splashing with his mother. He is not trumpeting with his father. He is not eating bananas with his friends. What is the baby elephant doing? Sucking his trunk!CHUSK! CHUSK! Just ahead are some deer. Anaya sees a fawn that is not munching with her mother. She is not looking at other animals like her father. She is not prancing with her friends.What is the baby deer doing? Sucking her hoof! CHUSK! CHUSK! Next, the monkeys call out. Anaya spots an infant who is not clinging to her mother. She is not playing the clown with her father. She is not playing hide and seek with her friends.What is the baby monkey doing? Sucking her thumb! CHUSK! CHUSK! Anaya spots hippos in the water. She sees a hippopotamus calf that is not yawning wide with her mother. She is not grunting with her father. She is not swimming with her friends.What is the baby hippo doing? Sucking her lip!CHUSK! CHUSK! The tigers welcome her with a growl. And look at that tiger cub! He is not snoozing with his mother. He is not swatting flies with his father. He is not sneaking up on his friends.What is the baby tiger doing? Sucking his tail! CHUSK! CHUSK! Anaya sits down and thinks of the baby animals that are missing all the fun. Anaya looks at the people around her. She sees a boy on his father's shoulders waving his arms. She sees a boy carrying cotton candy and a juice can. She sees a girl clicking pictures with a camera. She sees a baby shaking her rattle. All the children are having fun! Anaya looks down her nose and sees her own hand curled up, with the thumb in her mouth. Could she put her thumb to better use? Anaya pulls her thumb out of her mouth, runs ahead and stops between her parents. She holds onto their hands, counts 1-2-3, jumps up and swings high in the air.“WHEEE!”And the little baby monkey watching her from above does the same.

Thuli has short hair. Anna has long hair. Cathy has the longesthair. Zama has plaited herhair. Baba has a beard. Zanele has combed herhair. Thabo has cut his hair. Themba has shaved hishair.

Zama is getting ready for school. Dad is cooking porridge for breakfast. "Mom makes the best porridge!" says Zama. Porridge gives Zama energy for school. The porridge is ready. Dad pours the milk, with love. "Dad, I think this porridge needs more sugar," says Zama. "Mom's porridge tastes much better than Dad's porridge," thinks Zama. "Dad, please can I have more sugar?" asks Zama. Dad gives Zama more sugar. "Wu! Dad! You put salt on my porridge!" "Dad, when will Mom be home?" asks Zama.

One afternoon, Saboo was playing alone in the garden “Mother can I have a small puppy?”“No,” said mother.“A very small puppy?”asked Saboo.“No,” said mother. Saboo kicked a stone, which rolled near a tree. The tree trunk had fur. He touched it and looked up, up, and right up. He saw two eyes looking down at him. “Hello! Who are you?” asked a surprised Saboo.“Hello yourself, I am a giraffe. My name is Jojo. I can play with you. If you climb up on to my back, I will take you for a ride.” Saboo climbed up and away they went down the road, up the hill, and into town.Saboo shouted happily,“Jojo turn right, now left, and again right,” till they came to his friend Munni's house. It was Munni's birthday. The children clapped when they saw Saboo on Jojo's back. Jojo helped Aunty put up the balloons. He was soooo...o tall, it was easy for him. Jojo gave the children rides, he even played kick ball with them. It was a fun party.Everyone sang, “Happy birthday to you.” Aunty put samosas, gulab jamuns, and ice-creams on the table. Jojo loved the ice-cream, so uncle got him a bucketful of ice-cream. Jojo finished it all. It was time to go home.They said, “Bye Jojo, bye Saboo.”Saboo and Jojo made their way back home. Mother was standing at the gate. When she saw Saboo riding a giraffe, she was so... so... shocked.“Saboo... I... said,”“Mother you said, no small puppy, you did not say, no big tall giraffe.” Before mother could answer, the zookeeper came and took Jojo back to the zoo.

The first house was built in a faraway land of the East, long, long ago by two friends, Kindru-Lalim and Kincha Lali-Dam. In those days, people still lived in caves and did not know what a house was.One day, Kindru-Lalim remarked, “O Lali, I'm so tired of living in a dark cave. Why don't we build a house in the forest?”“That's a fantastic idea, Kindru!” exclaimed Kincha Lali-Dam. “Let's go and ask our friends- the birds, beasts and reptiles how to build a house!” So Kincha Lali-Dam and Kindru-Lalim came out of their caves and entered a dense forest. The first animal they saw was an elephant standing under a tree, flapping his large ears.“Can you tell us how to build a house, O mighty one?” they asked. The elephant trumpeted loudly and said, “Cut logs to make pillars as strong and thick as my legs!” The two friends chopped down a tree and made thick pillars out of it.A snake suddenly slithered past them on the forest floor. “Fetch poles as long and thin as I am,” hissed the snake, so off went Kindru-Lalim and Kincha Lali-Dam to cut bamboos from a nearby grove. As they returned, carrying the bamboo on their backs, they heard a mournful ‘moo'. It was a mithun, a large buffalo-like creature who lives in those areas and she was bending over the carcass of an animal.“Can you tell us how to build a house please?” asked Kincha Lali-Dam. “I'm much too sad to talk now,” said the mithun sadly, “but I'll help you all the same. You see, a tiger has killed my husband, so make a roof with cross poles, like the bones of his skeleton,” added the mithun, pointing at her dead mate.Kincha Lali-Dam and Kindru-Lalim thanked the mithun for her advice and began making cross poles out of the bamboo, but they soon began to tire. They put down the bamboo poles and walked to a nearby river to have a drink.Suddenly, a graceful fish swam up to them and whispered, “I saw from afar that you were building a house! Have a look at the scales on my back. Collect plenty of leaves and put them on the roof, one on top of the other, like my scales. That will protect your house from sun and rain,” said the fish and she gently swam away. Kindru-Lalim and Kincha Lali-Dam now had all the advice they needed to build a house and they worked very hard to complete it. When it was finally done, they called the creatures of the forest to come and have a look.“What a wonderful house you've built!” cried everyone. “And now it's all yours to live in!” “It's not only ours but yours as well, because you've helped us build it!”cried Kindru-Lalim and Kincha Lali-Dam happily.The sun shone brightly in the sky, a breeze whistled softly and the trees swayed gently as Kindru-Lalim and Kincha Lali-Dam stepped into their new house. And this is how the first house was built in that faraway land in northeastern India known today as Arunachal Pradesh!The SingphosThe Singphos live in the Lohit and the Changlang districts of Arunachal Pradesh. Their tribe is divided into a number of clans each ruled by a chief known as Gam. Unlike other hill people who are involved in jhum (shifting) cultivation, the Singphos grow tea.Singpho women wear bright woollen skirts and black jackets with silver decorations during a festival called Munao Poi. The Singpho men wear colourful lungis with or without a white shirt and cover their heads with turbans.Singpho houses are usually double storied and made of wood or bamboo. They are oval in shape and the lower storey is used as a stable or for storing food while the upper storey becomes the family's living quarters.

I love to read Who can I read for? The baby is sleeping Who can I read for? Mom and grandmotherare cooking Who can I read for? Father and grandfatherare fixing the car Who can I read for?I will sit and read formyself

With my nose... ...I smell dirty socks. ...I smell beautifulflowers. With my eyes... ...I see a balloonblowing away in thewind. ...I see a happy cat. With my mouth... ...I taste the salty sea. ...I taste a juicy sweetorange. With my hand... ...I take your hand.

I wake up at night feeling thirsty. I want to get some water. I start looking for my slippers under the bed. Oh my God! There is a tiger under my bed. Now what should I do? Should I call Ma? What if the tiger roars? Should I just go back to sleep? But I am not sleepy any more. Then someone turns on the light. Ma is standing at the door. “What happened dear?Did you call me?” asks Ma. I point towards the tiger. Ma bends and pulls the tiger out from under the bed! Hey, this is no tiger. This is my thick yellow and black sweater. Its buttons shine like a tiger's eyes. I got scared for nothing!Ma gets me some water. Now I will sleep. And dream about real tigers in a jungle!

One special Friday Yusuf'sfather gets dressed before aflicker of light brightens the sky.He pulls on his heavy weatherproof jacket and the greenwoolen cap that covers his ears.He waves his boy goodbye.Yusuf's eyes brighten whenPapa says, "Today is the day Iwill catch a fish and bring a gifthome for you." A fish and a gift? Oh, what will itbe? Papa cycles down toMuizenberg Beach. Squeaksqueak go the wheels all theway to Surfer's Corner.Gulls circle the sky. "Whaaat?Whaaat? Whaaat?" they cry."What will you bring back forYusuf?"Papa rings his bell. "Wait andsee what it will be!" The fishermen watch the sunrise. They check their nets.They check their oars. Theylisten to the wind. They dragtheir boats down to the water.Yusuf's grandfather, Oupa Saliewas a treknet fisherman. Beforehim his father, OupagrootjieRidwaan, knew the sea too. The boat rides into the waves.Papa's arms stretch to the oar.His leg braces against the side.His neck strains, his backmuscles ripple.Papa sings as he works: "Dropand swish. Find a fish. Pull andplop. Don't you stop." All day long Yusuf looks at thesky. It is bright and clear andwindless. A fish and a gift! Whatwill Papa bring home from thesea? Sometimes he brings abeautiful shell. Sometimes hebrings a jewel green bottlerinsed by the waves. Some days Yusuf's father bringsa story. Like the time they foundsea turtles on the sand,hundreds washed up in a storm."Whaaat? Whaaat? Whaaat?"cried the gulls. "What will youdo to help the turtles?"Papa said, "We saved thoseturtles, I tell you straight. Wesent them back to the ocean,every last one." Always Papa brings a song. Hesings the song while he pullsthe oars. He sings the songwhile he pulls the nets. He singsthe song as he winds the ropes.He sings the song as he cycleshome. "Drop and swish. Find afish. Pull and plop. Don't youstop." Ouma Safiya wants a nice fatyellowtail for her supper.Mother wants a new dress."Don't be silly," says Ouma."You'll be lucky if they catcheven a tiny crab. More likely itwill be fish tail Friday. There'snot so many fish left in thesea."Yusuf holds Ouma's hand. Theycross the road at the bathingcabins."Whaaat? Whaaat? Whaaat?"cry the gulls perched on thebright rooftops. "What is forsupper?" Last year the fishermen foughtwith the surfers. Angry fists andshouting words."Whaaat? Whaaat? Whaaat?"cried the gulls."There's enough sea foreverybody," said Yusuf's father.He showed them the fishinglicense that had been OupaSalie's. "Waves for all. Water forfree." Ouma Safiya watches throughher binoculars, her fingerscurled in curiosity. The sharksiren sounds. Swimmers runback to the sand and grab theirtowels. Surfers rush to theshore, carrying their boardsunder their arms. Under theshowers they strip off theirwetsuits."Whaaat? Whaaat? Whaaat?"cry the gulls. "What will Yusuf'sfather bring from the ocean?" Yusuf's father and uncle andcousins heave and pull. A littleshark has been caught. It twistsand thrashes in the waves.Yusuf's father untangles thenets, singing to the shark:"Drop and swish. Find a fish.Pull and plop. Don't you stop."When the shark at last is free itstreaks back into the waves,leaving only one fat yellowtail inthe net. Ouma Safiya will bepleased. The men pull the boat in andcoil up the cables. A hard whitetriangle catches Papa's finger."Whaaat? Whaaat? Whaaat?"cry the gulls. "What did youbring back for Yusuf?"As the sun goes down, Papaanswers the gulls. "A luckyshark tooth for my boy."At home Yusuf holds his gift upto the stars.

Nani keeps losing her glasses.“Where did I keep them?” she always asks. Without her glasses, she cannot find her glasses. So she needs me. To be her eyes, to find her own eyes! Sometimes her spectacles are in the bathroom. Or on her bed. Or on her head.“Nani,” I say, “they are on your head!” “Of course! How silly of me. Thank you, Richa dear,” she says with a giggle.This time, though, I cannot find Nani's glasses. Not yet. I have looked everywhere. In all the usual places. On her head, in the bathroom, inside her cupboard, and on the puja shelf. I have looked under her favourite chair and on the dining table.Nothing. No glasses. Where could they be? I decided to be a good detective. I decided to find out what she had done all day. “I did nothing much today. Except that Veena's mother-in-law came, you know. And how much she gossips! We had many cups of tea. And she ate all the laddoos your mother had made,” said Nani. Raju said, “Nani was very busy today. She wrote a letter to the Chief Minister about her pension.” Amma said, “She spoke for a long time to your Masi. She finished knitting the sweater for Raju. And then she went for a short walk.”I now had many clues. I quickly looked around new places in the house.Aha! I have found the missing glasses! The spectacles were wrapped in wool, kept next to her pen, under the phone, on her desk. And I found a half-eaten laddoo there as well. For Nani's next birthday, I will save money for an extra pair of glasses!Nani: Hindi word for grandmotherMasi: Hindi word for mother's sister

For a long time, Rabbitand Monkey were greatfriends. However, Rabbit wasjealous of Monkeybecause of his long tail.One day they went for awalk. They went to the shamba and ate maize. Rabbit tricked Monkeyto be trapped by thefarmer. Clever rabbit shouted,"Robbers! Robbers!"And ran away. The monkey could notrun fast because of hislong tail. The farmers shouted:Stop! Stop! They caught him andstarted beating him. The monkey revealedhow his friend Rabbitinvited him to theshamba. But the owners did notwant to listen."We will cut off yourtail," they said. Rabbit took Monkey'stail secretly and cookedit.Then he invited theMonkey for the meal. After the meal, themonkey said, "Themeat was delicious." Rabbit smiled and said,"It was your tail," andran away.And from then on theybecame enemies!

I have a friend. She lives in my house. When I am happy, so is she. When I cry, she cries too. But I cannot hear her voice. My friend lives inside the mirror. “Come out,” I tell her, “we will play.” She does not come out. I am not happy. I go to sleep. She comes out of the mirror in my sleep! And we have fun. We play, we run, we shout and scream together. When I talk to her, she also talks to me. In the morning, my friend will go back into the mirror. But I don't mind at all. We will play again in my dreams!

Hello, I am the fourth one in the line. Can you see me? Left, right, left, right. We walk silently in a line. I just got an idea. I am going to get a set of WHEELS to move faster! We are not noisy like other animals. Ours is a language of smells. One kind of smell says, “Follow me this way for a feast.” Another smell says, “Danger! Do not go there.” I love cakes and all kinds of sweets, just like you. Want to see my muscles at work? I may look very tiny to you, but I am very strong. Never mind if the door is shut. I can slip through the smallest crack. Believe it or not, hundreds of us live happily in a colony. LET US LEARN SOME NEW WORDS.Small - BigSlow - FastShort - TallThin - FatHard - SoftNoisy - QuietHere are some words with their opposites. Can you make a sentence for each pair of opposite words?For example, ‘An ant is small; an elephant is big'.“As busy as an ant” is a nice way to describe someone who is very hard working.

Clouds can bring rain.I like clouds. Clouds can bring snow.I like clouds. Clouds can hide thesun.I like clouds. Clouds can hide thestars.I like clouds.

This is my house. Ma, Pa and Cheena also live here. The best chair in the house is for me. But sitting on the lap is even better, isn't it? Cheena is my best friend. I wait for her to return from school. I keep myself clean without water. I do not need a bath like Tommy. Shhh... don't tell anyone that I am hiding here.1...2...3... Got you! Ma shouts at me, when I bring some tasty food from the garden. I can climb trees. I can jump. I know all the short cuts here. Sanju lives nearby. He teases me. It makes me very angry. Please tell Sanju that the tiger is from our cat family. We have sharp claws. My friends sometimes make a lot of noise at night. By then I am quietly in bed. Tails can speak!Did you know how animals and birds tell us something by using their tails?A dog wags its tail when it is happy. A cat puffs up its tail when it is angry.Often we say, “As clean as a cat”. This is because cats do not like water, yet they are always keeping themselves clean by licking themselves.

Skipping Running Kicking the ball Jumping

I live in the mango tree. I eat lots of ripe fruit in summer. When my babies are in the nest, I have to be on guard. Come peep into my nest. See the lovely things I have found. I love to fly up in the sky, like a plane. I sit on the tree and look around for some tasty bits of food. I look to my right. I look to my left. I love fish. When I spot it, I fly down to pick it up. With my cawing I call my friends to share the feast with me. Some people shout at me, “Go away, you noisy bird.” Mr Fox likes my singing. He told me so himself. LET US LEARN SOME NEW WORDS.The sound that each animal or bird makes, has a special name. How many of these do you know?A crow caws.A cat mews. A lion roars.A dog barks.Crows make a lot of noise. So when some people talk loudly we say, “As noisy as a crow”.

Maama Bela gave a letter toNekesa."Take this letter to Jjaja Kolo"Said maama Bela. Nekesa put on her shoes.She put the letter in her smallbag and ran off. She met her friends who were playing netball."Am taking this letter to Jjaja Kolo. I like toenjoy netball for some minutes. I must join younow," said Nekesa.She played netball with friends. She met an old man with herwife feeding the chicken."Am taking this letter to JjajaKolo, but it is fun to feedchicken, I must join you now"Nekesa started to feed chicken. She met friends who wanted to climb a hill."Am taking this letter to Jjaja Kolo, but I havenever climbed any hill. I must join you now."She joined the group. She met friends who werepicking mangoes. "Am takingthis letter to Jjaja Kolo but i likepicking mangoes.I must join you."She picked mangoes withfriends. She met friends who wereswimming."Am taking this letter to JjajaKolo but i like swimming somuch.I must join you now."She joined the swimming group. She forgot about the letter.Some one played with the bagand dropped the letter on thegrass.A group of cows came to thepool to drink water. A cow grabbed the letter andchewed it up.Nekesa did not see the cow. "It is coming to midday.I must take Jjaja Kollo's letter"She said.Nekesa picked her bag and checked inside it.The bag was empty. she screamed and called forhelp."My friends help meI cant find Jjaja Kolo's letter.Who has picked it?" Her friends tried to look for theletter but it was not found. "Am now in danger.but let me go back home.but Maama Bela will punish me."She went home with one of her friend. "Am sssssorry Maama Belah! I lost Jjaja Kolo'sletter."Maama Belah asked her many questions.She knew that Nekesa played much and lostthe letter.She gave her a small punishment and warnedher never to do it again.

I wake up and make fire. I boil some water. I chop the firewood. I stir the pot. I sweep the floor. I wash the dishes. Why do I work so hard...... when my brother is busy playing?

We are a family of four. I follow Chinku everywhere. I have to look after Chinku. You see, I am older than him. Sometimes Chinku is careless. It is my duty to guard the house. We do everything together. We work together. We play together. We even share Ma's scolding. When Chinku is at school I help Ma. I keep the crows away from the papads. Today Chinku will be my teacher. At last, I will learn something new. I am a good doggy. I do not scare away cats. Are you Chinku's friend? Then you are my friend too. Read the following action sentences. Which of these activities do you like to do?I like dancing.I like swimming.I like skipping.I like drawing. I like cycling.I like climbing.Sometimes we say, “As faithful as a dog”. This is because a dog always stays close to its master. If it goes far away or is lost, a dog always finds its way back home.

Grandma greets me We ran to look at grandma's cow. I caught up with her. I ran away from her. Grandma got very tired.

This play is based on a modern form of theatre called Body Theatre. The beauty of this form is that it can be done impromptu, at any place, with as many or as few actors as convenient, with or without props. You will find suggestions on how to perform this play at the end of the book.And now the play!The Boy and the DrumNarrator/s (stepping out to one corner of the stage): A poor woman had a son. She worked hard as a gardener in wealthy houses in their town. They gave her some grain in return.One child mimes the mother, while other children form groups of the well-to-do families. The mother goes to each group and mimes gardening for these groups. Having created this 30-second scene, all the groups, including the mother freeze in their positions.Narrator: But she felt bad because she could never afford to buy nice clothes or lovely toys for her son.A young boy comes running through the chorus, singing a song and playing mime cricket. He freezes with a pose at the centre of the stage.Narrator: The little lad was bright and cheerful. Not having any toys or nice clothes did not bother him. After a hard day's work, the mother was going to the market to sell the grain she had received.The mother steps towards the boy and the rest of the frozen actors go back to the chorus.Narrator: She asked her son:Mother: What can I get for you from the market, little one? Narrator: Now the boy was fascinated with the sound of a drum. So he said:Boy: A drum, mother, I would love to have a drum to play with.During the following narration, the boy continues to be frozen in his position while the mother circles the stage. She meets one actor who steps out of the chorus as the merchant to whom she sells the grain, another from whom she buys flour, and on the way she picks up a piece of wood, and goes back to the boy.Narrator: The mother knew she would never have enough money to buy a drum for her son. She went to the market, sold her grain and bought some gram flour and some salt. While returning home, she felt sad that she would have to face him empty-handed. So when she saw a nice piece of wood on the road, she picked it up and brought it home.The son did not know what to do with the piece of wood. Yet he happily carried it with him when he went out to play. A happy song sprang to his lips and he went along singing it:Boy moves around the stage while chorus watches him.Boy: Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee TotTum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot!I asked for a drum and look what I got,A lovely piece of wood!I asked for a drum and look what I got,I think my luck is good!Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee TotTum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot! Towards the end of the song, an old man emerges from the chorus. He mimes trying to light his stove. As he coughs, the entire chorus coughs, thus amplifying the effect of his condition.Narrator: And as he went skipping along on his way, he came across an old man. The old man was trying to light his stove using some cow-dung cakes. The fire was not catching and there was smoke all around. The smoke made the man's eyes water and he was coughing. The little boy ran up to him and said:Boy: What is the matter Grandpa? Can I help you in any way?Old Man: Ah! Little one, I am trying to cook some food, but I am unable to start a fire. For you see,My fire will just not startI need to cook. Oh! Take a lookMy fire will never start! Can somebody start this fire?My eyes are red, my arms are tired.I need to eat, I need some food.Oh! For a dry piece of wood!Boy: Here, Grandpa, you can use my piece of wood to start your fire.The following actions are mimed as the narrator speaks.Narrator: The old man was very pleased. He lit his fire, made some bread and gave a piece to the boy.The old man steps back into the chorus.The boy skipped along singing his song:Boy: La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- LaLa-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La!My piece of wood got me some food.A lovely piece of bread.My piece of wood is not a drum, but itGot me bread.A lovely piece of bread.La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- LaLa-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La!Narrator: The boy walked on till he came upon a potter's wife. She had her baby in her arms. The baby was wailing and flailing her arms.As before, the potter's wife emerges from the chorus, as if with a baby in her arms. While the mother tries to pacify the baby, the chorus hums a lullaby softly. This lullaby can be a regional song.The boy said:Boy: Dear lady, why is your daughter crying?Potter's Wife: My little one is hungry. She has not had anything to eat since morning. I cannot give her anything as there is nothing in the house. I wish I had some bread to give her.Narrator: The kind hearted boy gave the lady his bread. She gave the bread to her child who ate it eagerly and stopped crying. She was so pleased with the boy that she gave him a large pot.The above actions are mimed as the narrator voices the lines. After the action, the woman with the baby goes back to the chorus while the boy continues, carrying his pot.The boy went along humming his funny song:Boy: Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee TotTum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot!I gave my bread away andLook what I got!I gave my bread away andGot a lovely pot!Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee TotTum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot! Narrator: The little boy skipped along until he came upon a strange scene at the river bank.The chorus can move their hands all together, symbolizing the flowing river. The washerman and his wife emerge from the chorus, arguing in mime. Their actions are exaggerated but their voices are not heard.A washerman was quarreling loudly with his wife. The boy stopped and asked:Boy: Dear Sir, what is the matter? Why are you quarreling with your wife?Narrator: The washerman said:Washerman: You see, son, it was like this,I gave her a pot, I gave her a pot.And what did she do?I gave her a pot, it cost a lot.She went and broke it too! She broke the pot, the last of my lot,And now I feel so sore!I gave her the pot, the pot she broke.The pot I need to boil my clothes.Without the pot, my clothes will rot.Oh, they will remain soiled!So you see, I have nothing to boil my clothes in before I wash them. And because of her, my trade will suffer.Boy: Dear Sir, don't quarrel with your wife. Please take this pot of mine and use it.Narrator: The washerman was very happy with the pot. He was so pleased with the boy's good nature that he gave him a nice coat in return.The entire chorus praises the coat, ‘Wah, what a nice coat! Look at the colour! Seems very cozy! So soft and warm!' The washerman and his wife make their way back to the chorus. The boy ran along singing his funny song.Boy: As I walked along,With my pot in hand, I met a washerman. Who gave me this coat so grand!Oh so funny indeed!People looking for things,And I have what they need!Narrator: The boy walked on, all the while admiring his grand coat. He soon came to a bridge, and there he was alarmed by what he saw.For the following narration, the chorus makes the sound of a cold wind blowing. A man emerges from the chorus, shivering. He sits down, curled into a ball.A man was shivering in the cold and he was not even wearing a shirt. He seemed to be hurt and was moaning in pain. The boy was very concerned and ran up to the man and said:Boy: You seem to be bleeding,You seem to be hurt! I'll try and get you some help. You also need a coat.Narrator: The boy asked the man how he came to be in such a sorry state.The man said:During the following lines, the action is mimed. A group of actors emerges. They chase another actor (playing the man), corner him, and rob him.Man: I was riding my horse in a hurry.I was riding my horse to the city. A crowd of thieves, they came and GOT me! They got me down, they got me out.They took my purse, got all my money.I tried to put up a good fight.But they beat me up, they beat me bad.They left me in pain, they left me hurt.They took it all, even my shirt!As the song ends the acting-robber group goes back to the chorus.Narrator: The boy said:Boy: Your need is greater than mine. Please take this coat. It will help you keep warm.Narrator: The man was touched by the little lad's kindness. He thanked the boy profusely and presented him with the big fine horse he was riding.The robbed man goes into the chorus, while the entire chorus mimes the riding of the horse with the sounds. A drum can accompany the rhythm. The chorus mimes the riding on the spot, while the boy rides his horse across the stage.The boy was very happy and led the horse along, singing his song.Boy: Oh so funny indeed!People looking for things,And I have what they need!A man needs a shirt,But all he has is a big fine horse!I gave him my coat, what did I get?His big fine horse, of course!The "horsing" of both the boy and chorus stops. Another group emerges from the chorus. These include the bridegroom, his relatives, and the drummers of the party. Narrator: As he was walking along with his horse, he came upon a large party of gaily dressed people. They were part of a big wedding party with the bridegroom, and musicians. They seemed ready to go in a wedding procession, but all of them were sitting under a tree with long faces.At this point, both the groom's party and the remaining chorus actors sing a popular wedding song, but in a slow and sad-sounding manner.The boy stopped and asked them what made them look so depressed. The groom's father said:Groom's father: You see, son, it's like this. We are all set to go in the wedding procession.But we need a horse for the groom. The man who was supposed to bring it hasn't turned up, the auspicious hour is almost gone.Narrator: And the groom himself stepped up to the boy and said:Groom: I am the groom.Waiting to see my bride,But I'm stuck in here Just hoping for a ride!I just can't go there on my feet.My horse is late and so is the hour.My guests are all waiting to eat.I'll miss my wedding for sure!So you see, what I need right now is a horse! I need a horse! A really quick horse!Chorus: He needs a horse, he needs a horse! He needs a really fast horse! Narrator: And so the boy, being helpful as ever, offered his horse to the groom. The groom was very happy and he asked the boy what he could give him in exchange for his horse.The boy looked around among the musicians and quickly spotted the drummer.He said:Boy: A stitch in time they say saves nine. And what indeed did save the day, Was this splendid horse of mine!All I want from you isThat fine little drum that you play!Oh, make my dreams come true!Please make my dream come true!The drummer steps forward with his drum, and hands it over to the boy during the following lines. Narrator: The groom requested the drummer to hand over the drum to the boy. The drummer knew he would easily get enough money to buy himself a brand new drum. He willingly gave his drum away.The groom's actors and everyone else return to the main body of the chorus. All sing the wedding song, but now it is happy and up-tempo.Narrator: The boy rushed home singing his song and playing his new drum. He could not wait to tell his mother how she had helped him to get his drum.The boy and the mother meet at the centre of the stage.Boy: My piece of wood did a lot of good!It got me bread as food.My piece of bread lasted not,But gave me a lovely pot.My pot got me a lovely coat.The coat did help a needy man.I got me a big fine horse to ride.With that horse, I got a groom his bride!So you see it is simple indeedA little bit of give and take,Will a lot of people happy make!So when you meet your friends today,Try and make their day!The last verse is sung again by the entire chorus, which sings and dances around the boy. In the end, the actors all freeze in the positions of the various characters in the play.----------- Curtain ----------- Stage setting:The boxes below suggest a possible design for the play. Think of each of these boxes as a photograph of a particular scene. You could have the props, costumes, and musical instruments for the play on a bench placed against the back wall, and you could make use of them during the changing of the scenes behind the chorus. Suggestions for the castThe play can be performed by a cast of six to thirty children. With more children, the role of the narrator and the boy can be assumed by many children, besides the other characters. For a cast of four to six children, the roles of the boy and the mother can be fixed, while the other children can take on the various other roles in the play. The stage directions given in the play are only meant as a suggestion or possibility. Please adapt the play to suit your needs in terms of availability of space (stage, classroom, hall etc.), props, sets and costumes.Possible costumes: Regular comfortable clothes like t-shirts and pants or salwar and kameez, OR school uniform.Possible props: Drum, stick, pot, dupattas, depending on availability. The entire play can also be done without any props, all of which can be mimed.Simple musical instruments:Simple musical instruments can be used or the chorus itself can make the appropriate sounds.Suggested stage directions for a group of about 20 to 30 children.Suggested stage directions for a group of about 20 to 30 childrenAll the children are facing away from the audience in three equal lines. A couple of narrators come in a very dramatic fashion. For example, the two of them can be playing a game of catch and suddenly they look at the audience, welcome them, and speak a little about the play together as a chorus: "The story of the boy and the drum, a story about sharing, a story about values, a story about people and not things."The whole group turns to the audience and shouts out the title as one big chorus. The group stays in the three lines, now facing the audience.From now on, the characters will step out of the chorus to the stage space in front and then back into the chorus when they are done with their part in the play.The mother can wear a colored dupatta, which she gives to the boy when she gives him the piece of wood. All the other characters can also wear dupattas, which they exchange with the boy at the appropriate time. This action can symbolize sharing and giving, although this is not essential to the play's action.

In a far away town, there lived aboy named Themba.Everyone in the town was tired ofThemba breaking things anddrawing on walls, so his mumdecided that farm work was theonly place he would not be able tobreak or ruin anything. So she senthim to work at the farm with Siphothe herdsman. Early in the morning Themba andSipho would go to the farm and lookafter the animals and water thecrops. The more that Themba worked inthe farm the more it felt like doingchaos and no longer fun.Themba started to get tired andannoyed with the place, but Siphowould always encourage him andtell him that it can be fun. Sipho would go and play with theanimals. He would feed them andtalk to them. But Themba would sitand just watching, he didn't feel likeworking in the farm anymore. Hethought it was a waste of time forhim. After seeing how much fun Siphowas having, Themba decided to goand join in the fun. But Themba started getting carriedaway and what seemed like fun nowfelt horrible for Sipho. "Now this is fun! you were rightSipho, working in the farm is somuch fun. Hahahahah" saidThemba Themba destroyed the farm and letall the animal out of the farm andled the to town. Soon the animals were all over thetown and people started shouting atThemba. Everyone new that troublefrom the naughthy boy was backagain.Chickens were running everywhere,the other animals were eating andbreaking things in the town. It wasall a big mess. It all got out of hand and theanimals started chasing Thembaand the people."Oh no, what have i done?" saidThemba  So Sipho told Themba that theyhave to get the animals back to thefarm and clean up the place beforehis mum comes from work or elsethey will both be in big trouble.They started cleaning and fetchingwater to water the plants thatThemba had destroyed and got allthe animals back to the farm intime. In no time the garden was back tothe way it was."Thank you so much Sipho, we hadput the garden back to how it was"Themba shouted"Yesss! we did it Themba" Siphosaid cheerfully Now instead of messing the farmThemba and Sipho would sit andenjoy the Apples from the Appletree and play with the animals.Themba never again did as he haddone before, he now listened toSipho and realised that being at thefarm can also be fun withoutvandalising the place.

Munia knew that the giant, one-feathered elephant bird had not swallowed the horse. Yes, he was big enough to swallow a horse, but that didn't mean he had! The village of Adhania had only one horse-cart pulled by the two horses Vayu and Drut. And Vayu had gone missing near the lake in the jungle where the bird lived.The villagers had known about the elephant bird for generations. He was the last of his race, which was considered extinct for hundreds of years. The world did not know that the living relic of that race, who had lost all his feathers but one, still roamed the jungles of Adhania.The bird and the villagers kept a safe distance from each other. But not Munia. Although she walked with a limp, she was brave of heart. She often slipped into the jungle to watch the elephant bird. The elephant bird came near the lake in the daytime to bask in the sun or play in the lake alone splashing water. Sometimes he sat half-submerged in water. At other times there was no trace of him.Perhaps he just rested in some corner of the dense jungle. He stood as tall as a tree. He had a long strong neck, huge legs with claws and a heavy spear-like head. His long talons and nails looked scary. But Munia soon realised he was a shy herbivorous bird. He just munched on leaves by the lakeside.Munia felt she had something in common with him. The elephant bird could not fly and Munia could not run! Other village children mocked her limp and did not include her in their games. That was why she liked staying alone. Every morning Munia helped fetch three pitchers of water from the village well, and collected wood so that Amma could light the stove. And then she would be out for a long time. Amma believed she went out to play with the kids. Little did she know that Munia went into the jungle to the lake where the elephant bird lived. One day, gathering courage, Munia stepped in the open near the lake. Without turning his head the elephant bird rolled his eyes towards Munia and then closed them, uninterested by her advance.Getting no more attention than the flies buzzing over his head, Munia stomped her feet. Suddenly the elephant bird lifted one of his claws. Munia cried and fell headlong into the shallow waters of the lake. She came out drenched to see him shaking all over. He was laughing! “That's funny, huh?” she asked angrily and turned to leave. Before Munia had walked away from the clearing, something hit her feet. It was a fruit that the elephant bird had thrown at her. The elephant bird wanted to play! Hesitantly, Munia threw it at him. He trotted sideways and caught the fruit in his beak. Thus, Munia's friendship with the elephant bird had begun. And just when she had finally found a friend, Vayu had gone missing! And everyone's suspicion had turned towards the elephant bird. After searching for Vayu high and low, the villagers gathered under the old banyan tree. Everyone agreed that there could be no thief in Adhania. They all trusted one another. The milkman swore that he had seen Vayu gallop away towards the lake. “There is no sign of Vayu anywhere. It must be something in the jungle that got him,” a villager addressed the headman. “Who else can it be but the giant one-feathered elephant bird? He must be destroyed!” said the milkman. “For years he has been lying silent, hatching his evil plans!” The crowd agreed. Munia watched the proceedings quietly. She wanted to speak, but was scared of being punished for speaking up. Even if she spoke, who would believe her? “Yes, all these years of aimless living has made the giant dangerous,” said Munia's father. “Today it is a horse, tomorrow it may be our children...”The headman spoke over the villagers' angry shouts, “Brothers, even though we are facing a giant, we have the strength of numbers. So let us go out and finish him!” A cheer of approval went up. “The elephant bird did not eat the horse,” Munia said softly but firmly, limping forward. “I was with him when Vayu went missing!” A heavy silence fell on the gathering. “What does this mean?” roared the headman. “That the elephant bird is my friend, and he has not done this!”“This girl has lost her mind!” shouted someone from the back. The other children laughed. “He only eats leaves! How can he eat Vayu?” Munia shouted, not moving from her place. “You can't even plait your hair and you are giving us advice?” Munia's father fumed and came towards her. “Go play with your friends!”“This elephant bird is the only friend I have,” said Munia. Her father glared at her. But she didn't cry and stood there facing the villagers.“Forget about the girl, we will get the elephant bird in the morning,” said the headman and the gathering dispersed. Munia had only one night to prove the elephant bird's innocence. “Think, Munia, think!” she whispered to herself. “The milkman saw Vayu gallop away on the road that goes to the lake. But the road takes a turn before it reaches the lake and goes towards Chandesara. What if Vayu had gone that way?”Munia's parents were angry with her and sent her to bed without speaking a word. Once they were asleep, she got out of bed, took the hanging lamp and stepped out of the house. She crossed Adhania, and came to the jungle path leading to Chandesara, the neighbouring village. Whoooo... rang the call of an owl in the jungle air. A jackal howled from a distance. The shadows of trees moved like long dark fingers. She hesitated for a moment but then thought of the elephant bird sleeping peacefully in the jungle. If she didn't do something to solve the mystery, the elephant bird may not be alive to see the next night. She took a deep breath and limped alone on the jungle path in the dead of the night. The next morning the villagers gathered near the lake with sticks, sharp stones and long kitchen knives. The elephant bird was resting when the crowd approached him. The sun shone on his featherless back. He got up slowly and stared at the crowd. Looking at his size, the villagers stopped at some distance. After a moment's hesitation the headman cried, “Be ready!” The mob roared, firming the grip on the weapons, ready to run down the giant one-feathered elephant bird. “Stop!” Munia's thin voice cut through the din. She limped between the mob and the giant.“Munia! Come back at once!” her father ordered. “Grab her!” cried someone else.Munia's father and another villager rushed towards her. The elephant bird advanced a couple of steps and they stopped. “Okay... if this is how you want it, we'll tackle both of you together!” yelled a man, holding a spear. “What's going on?” someone shouted from behind the crowd. A slightly hunched man with a long beard came in holding a horse's reins.The headman asked with a surprised look, “Saarthi, what are you doing here? And why is Vayu with you?” “Oh, as you know, I had sold Vayu to you some years back. Yesterday I was passing by your village early in the morning in my buggy pulled by Jhabru and Ghabru – Vayu's brothers. I don't know how Vayu got loose and followed us back to Chandesara! I couldn't recognize him and didn't know what to do with him until this morning when I saw this little girl going from hut to hut, asking about a lost horse. But what is going on?” he asked again. The villagers did not answer Saarthi. They hung their heads in shame. Munia's father went to her, lifted her in his arms and took her back to the village. Since that day, no child laughed at Munia's limp. They all wanted to be friends with her. And they all wanted to be friends with the elephant bird.Munia's tale reached many villages and the villagers in faraway hamlets whispered to each other, “Munia knew that the giant one-feathered elephant bird had not swallowed the horse!” This story is inspired by the real Elephant Bird (scientific name: Aepyornis maximus), the biggest bird that walked our planet. It inhabited the island of Madagascar. With more and more settlements on the island, and more forests ruined, the species became extinct around 1700 CE.

Years ago, a group of hornedanimals decided to have a bigparty high up in the mountains.They only invited other animalswith horns. No one else. When the pig heard about theparty, he thought, "I don't havehorns. What am I going to do?" The next day, he had an idea.He'd stick some horns to hishead with wax! It worked and the pig felt veryclever when he was allowedinto the party. The problem wasthat the party was taking placeclose to the sun. When the party started heatingup, the wax began to melt andhis horns fell off.The horned animals wereshocked. "Who's that one withno horns? Why did he comehere?" they asked. The king of the animalscommanded, "Grab that pig andthrow him down to earth."They grabbed the pig and threwhim down to earth. Poor pig! When he fell, helanded on his nose. And hisnose was flattened into a snout. So don't be surprised when yousee the pig's flat snout,because it's been that way eversince.

ACT-1 Look at me, animals! I am a human being! I know everything! Look, these are my eyes. I can see everything with them. So what? We have eyes too. And we can see in the dark! Fine, but look at my nose. I breathe through my nose. So what? We also have noses and ours are prettier than yours! And yes, my teeth. I use my teeth to chew and bite. Teeth? Ha! Ha! Have you seen our teeth?You can chew. But WE CAN BITE! Hiee.. Hiee...Hiee... Yes, but listen! I can hear a lot with my ears! Little one! We can hear sounds which you cannot imagine at all! And I can walk, run and even dance with my feet. Oh! We have four feet! We can jump, we can danceand we can parade too! I can plait my hair. Uh! Our hair is pretty too.We could plait it if we wanted to. Maybe! Look! I can work with my hands! Hands! Keep your hands to yourself! ACT-2 Aha! I told you! I am the best! I know it all! Really?Have you seen our sharp claws? Yes! But your nails will pick up dirt! Now see, these are our lovely tails. Tails! We gave them up long ago!How else could we wear our shorts? And we can roar! Roar? Have you heard my mother? So then! You are only animals - I know that! Humans are animals too. We know that! You may be right. Look at my brother!Mother says he is wild. He is definitely an animal. Yes! And so are you! Believe us! We are all animals.We all belong here. Just like you.

The big bright moon rose up in the dark night sky. Little Badger was sitting under the stars,dreaming about one day going to visit the moon. Badger was a little grey dog, he had big ears and a large black and grey beard. He is aschnauzer dog. One morning at breakfast Badger said to his mother; "Mum, please can you go to the trainstation and buy me a ticket to go to the moon?"His mother laughed, "Oh dear little Badger, I am afraid you are too small to go to the moon." One morning at breakfast Badger said to his mother; "Mum, please can you go to the trainstation and buy me a ticket to go to the moon?"His mother laughed, "Oh little Badger! You are to small to go to the moon!" When Badger was at school his teacher asked the class what they want to be when theygrow up. Badger put his paw up and said, "Miss Trudy, I want to go to the moon."The class and Miss Trudy laughed; "Oh dear little Badger! I am afraid that the aliens willcatch you!" Not ready to give up yet, Badger asked Peppy Pig. "Peppy, I really want to go to themoon.Can you help me?" asked Badger.Peppy laughed so much, he almost fell off his chair. "Oh dear little Badger! I am afraid thatyour big beard will not fit into your space helmet!" Badger was sad. All he wanted to do was go to the moon. He thought if his friends won'thelp him go to the moon, he will find someone who can. So he left home and walked far andwide to find a friend who loved the moon. Badger walked down the hill, through a scary forest, crossed over an old bridge and finallyswam through a very deep river. He then saw a house.It was Grandpa Garry's house. "Grandpa Garry, I am so to see you!" he said. "I want to go to the moon! Mum says I am toosmall, Miss Trudy said the aliens will catch me and Peppy said my beard was too big! Whatcan I do now?" Grandpa Garry smiled at Badger and said, "Oh dear little Badger! Not to worry, we will go tothe moon together." Badger was excited. Grandpa Garry went behind his house and pulled out a large box."Are you ready to make our spaceship Badger?" laughed Grandpa Garry. Badger was so excited he jumped in the air, "Toinfinity and beyond!!" he cried.

A poor woman had a son. She worked hard as a gardener in wealthy houses in their town. They gave her some grain in return.But she felt bad because she could never afford to buy nice clothes or lovely toys for her son.The little lad was bright and cheerful. Not having any toys or nice clothes did not bother him. After a hard day's work, the mother was going to the market to sell the grain she had received.She asked her son:Mother: What can I get for you from the market, little one?Now the boy was fascinated with the sound of a drum. So he said:Boy: A drum, mother, I would love to have a drum to play with. The mother knew she would never have enough money to buy a drum for her son. She went to the market, sold her grain and bought some gram flour and some salt.While returning home, she felt sad that she would have to face him empty-handed. So when she saw a nice piece of wood on the road, she picked it up and brought it home.The son did not know what to do with the piece of wood. Yet he happily carried it with him when he went out to play.A happy song sprang to his lips and he went along singing it:Boy: Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot!I asked for a drum and look what I got,A lovely piece of wood!I asked for a drum and look what I got,I think my luck is good!Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee TotTum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot! And as he went skipping along on his way, he came across an old man. The old man was trying to light his stove using some cow-dung cakes. The fire was not catching and there was smoke all around. The smoke made the man's eyes water and he was coughing. The little boy ran up to him and said:Boy: What is the matter Grandpa? Can I help you in any way?Old Man: Ah! Little one, I am trying to cook some food, but I am unable to start a fire. For you see,My fire will just not startI need to cook. Oh! Take a lookMy fire will never start!Can somebody start this fire?My eyes are red, my arms are tired.I need to eat, I need some food.Oh! For a dry piece of wood! Boy: Here, Grandpa, you can use my piece of wood to start your fire.Narrator: The old man was very pleased. He lit his fire, made some bread and gave a piece to the boy.The boy skipped along singing his song:Boy: La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- LaLa-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La!My piece of wood got me some food.A lovely piece of bread.My piece of wood is not a drum, but itGot me bread. A lovely piece of bread.La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- LaLa-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La-la-la-la- La!The boy walked on till he came upon a potter's wife. She had her baby in her arms. The baby was wailing and flailing her arms.The boy said:Boy: Dear lady, why is your daughter crying?Potter's Wife: My little one is hungry. She has not had anything to eat since morning. I cannot give her anything as there is nothing in the house. I wish I had some bread to give her.The kind hearted boy gave the lady his bread. She gave the bread to her child who ate it eagerly and stopped crying. She was so pleased with the boy that she gave him a large pot. The boy went along humming his funny song:Boy: Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee TotTum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot!I gave my bread away andLook what I got!I gave my bread away andGot a lovely pot!Tum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee TotTum-ti-tee Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee-Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee- Tum-ti-tee Tot!The little boy skipped along until he came upon a strange scene at the river bank.A washerman was quarreling loudly with his wife.The boy stopped and asked:Boy: Dear Sir, what is the matter? Why are you quarreling with your wife?Narrator: The washerman said:Washerman: You see, son, it was like this,I gave her a pot, I gave her a pot.And what did she do?I gave her a pot, it cost a lot.She went and broke it too!I gave her the pot that cost a lot.It'll cost me all the more.She broke the pot, the last of my lot,And now I feel so sore! I gave her the pot, the pot she broke.The pot I need to boil my clothes.Without the pot, my clothes will rot.Oh, they will remain soiled!So you see, I have nothing to boil my clothes in before I wash them. And because of her, my trade will suffer.Boy: Dear Sir, don't quarrel with your wife. Please take this pot of mine and use it.The washerman was very happy with the pot. He was so pleased with the boy's good nature that he gave him a nice coat in return.The boy ran along singing his funny song.Boy: As I walked along,With my pot in hand,I met a washerman.Who gave me this coat so grand!Oh so funny indeed!People looking for things,And I have what they need! The boy walked on, all the while admiring his grand coat. He soon came to a bridge, and there he was alarmed by what he saw.A man was shivering in the cold and he was not even wearing a shirt. He seemed to be hurt and was moaning in pain. The boy was very concerned and ran up to the man and said:Boy: You seem to be bleeding,You seem to be hurt!I'll try and get you some help.You also need a coat.The boy asked the man how he came to be in such a sorry state. The man said:Man: I was riding my horse in a hurry.I was riding my horse to the city.A crowd of thieves, they came and GOT me!They got me down, they got me out.They took my purse, got all my money.I tried to put up a good fight.But they beat me up, they beat me bad.They left me in pain, they left me hurt.They took it all, even my shirt!The boy said:Boy: Your need is greater than mine. Please take this coat. It will help you keep warm.The man was touched by the little lad's kindness. He thanked the boy profusely and presented him with the big fine horse he was riding. The boy was very happy and led the horse along, singing his song.Boy: Oh so funny indeed!People looking for things,And I have what they need!A man needs a shirt,But all he has is a big fine horse!I gave him my coat, what did I get?His big fine horse, of course!As he was walking along with his horse, he came upon a large party of gaily dressed people. They were part of a big wedding party with the bridegroom, and musicians. They seemed ready to go in a wedding procession, but all of them were sitting under a tree with long faces.The boy stopped and asked them what made them look so depressed. The groom's father said:Groom's father: You see, son, it's like this. We are all set to go in the wedding procession. But we need a horse for the groom. The man who was supposed to bring it hasn't turned up, the auspicious hour is almost gone.And the groom himself stepped up to the boy and said:Groom: I am the groom.Waiting to see my bride,But I'm stuck in here Just hoping for a ride!I just can't go there on my feet.My horse is late and so is the hour.My guests are all waiting to eat.I'll miss my wedding for sure!So you see, what I need right now is a horse! I need a horse! A really quick horse!Chorus: He needs a horse, he needs a horse!He needs a really fast horse!And so the boy, being helpful as ever, offered his horse to the groom. The groom was very happy and he asked the boy what he could give him in exchange for his horse.The boy looked around among the musicians and quickly spotted the drummer.He said:Boy: A stitch in time they say saves nine.And what indeed did save the day,Was this splendid horse of mine!All I want from you isThat fine little drum that you play!Oh, make my dreams come true!Please make my dream come true!The groom requested the drummer to hand over the drum to the boy. The drummer knew he would easily get enough money to buy himself a brand new drum. He willingly gave his drum away. The boy rushed home singing his song and playing his new drum. He could not wait to tell his mother how she had helped him to get his drum.Boy: My piece of wood did a lot of good!It got me bread as food.My piece of bread lasted not,But gave me a lovely pot.My pot got me a lovely coat.The coat did help a needy man.I got me a big fine horse to ride.With that horse,I got a groom his bride!So you see it is simple indeedA little bit of give and take,Will a lot of people happy make!So when you meet your friends today,Try and make their day!

If I were a bank manager, Iwould be giving money toeverybody. If I were a vehicle, I wouldtransport people free of charge. If I were a hunter, I would hunt for animals which have no hair. If I were a rat , I would grow fatand chase the cat. If I were a baby, I would cry foronly expensive things. If I were a cat, I would be eating rats to grow fatter. If I were a hen, I would be layinggolden eggs to people. If I were a beggar, I would notaccept coins. If I were a doctor, I would treatpeople with slaps. If I were a priest, I would be taking all people to heaven. If I were a mosquito, I would be sleeping under a mosquito net.

Pishi was feeling sad and lonely. Just a day ago, he was one of a group of manta rays. They were feasting on tonnes of fish, far from the coast of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. How they had splashed and jumped out of the waters of the beautiful Indian Ocean! When he saw a ship ahead, Pishi had taken a huge dive in the water. His friends scattered. Pishi flapped his huge cloak-like fins and tried to swim to safety. There was a huge streak of lightning and a sound of thunder next. Pishi lost his bearings. The ocean had gone dark for him. A big wave rolled up, pushing him directly under the ship. Aaah, a cut on his belly! He knew what he had to do. He had to find his friends. But first he needed his wound to be treated. He swam and glided as fast as he could towards the coast. Pishi's heart beat fast. He wished he was not so big – 10 metres long, and weighing over 900 kilograms! He had to get to a hospital. Fast! His life depended on it. Then he saw the lighthouse on the coast. He leapt with joy! Pishi had reached the hospital, nature's hospital. A huge school of fish swam around him immediately. The same fish that he ate at other times were now his nurses. They cleaned the deep gash in his tummy. The ‘cleaner fish' nibbled on the torn pieces of skin. Soon Pishi felt so much better. He loved the Indian Ocean with its 5,000 species of marine life! Dear Reader,The Indian Ocean is known as ‘Ratnakara' in ancient Sanskrit literature. Ratnakara means the mine of jewels.Manta rays often visit cleaning stations. A cleaning station can be called nature's hospital in the ocean. Here, small fish such as angelfish swim in the manta ray's gills and over its skin. They are called cleaner fish because, they clean the manta ray by eating up parasites and dead tissue. Even though manta rays are huge, they are quite gentle.They are hunted by many animals like big sharks, whales and humans.

Once upon a time therabbit was a greatfriend of the monkey. One day the rabbitsaid:Let's go for a walkand look forsomething to eat.The monkey agreed,but it was a trap forhim! They went to a field ofmaize and started toeat it. But the clever rabbithad spoken to theowners of the farm, tocatch the monkey andshow him he wasfoolish. The clever rabbitstarted shouting:Robbers! Robbers!Your maize is all gone!And he jumped up andran away. Suddenly the ownersappeared and foundthe monkey trying torun away. But he has along tail and it wasstopping him. The owners followedhim, shouting:Stop! Stop!We saw you, you arethe monkey. But they caught himand started beatinghim. He couldn't stand thepain so he said:I was with my friendrabbit. He is the onewho invited me. But the owners cut histail off and told him:Go and tell your friendthat we cut off your tail! Then they went to therabbit's house andcooked the monkey'stail to eat.The rabbit invited themonkey for lunch. At the end of the mealthe rabbit asked themonkey if he knewwhat he had eaten.The foolish monkeyanswered: No, I don't! The rabbit told him thathe had eaten his owntail and then ran away.And from then on theybecame enemies!

Sukhiya Kaka lived in a village called Bitauna. Bitauna was famous all over Rajasthan for its singers. No celebration was complete without Sukhiya Kaka's sweet songs.Today he had been invited to village Jhalaura. Sukhiya Kaka twirled his big moustache and set off.He was singing raag Malhar.... Come to me o rolling clouds... Suddenly, he heard, dhupp dhupp dhupp dhupp!Was someone giving a beat to his song?Dinoo, the dinosuar came running towards him. Sukhiya Kaka was so happy to see him! You don't get such a BIG listener every day!... Come to me o rolling clouds, shower me with lovely rain!Sukhiya Kaka and Dinoo sang a duet and did a little jig to keep time. The clouds just had to listen to them!Lightning flashed and the wind danced. Dark clouds came rolling in.Sukhiya Kaka and Dinoo laughed with joy. As the rain came pouring down, Sukhiya Kaka and Dinoo shared a small umbrella. Then off they went to Jhalaura following the smell of yummy pakoras, singing... O thank you for the lovely rain... O..la la la. Dear Reader,Have you ever seen a dinosaur?Do you think they would have sung songs?What do you like to do in the rain?What do you like to eat when it rains?

Hamisi needs a newschool uniform. His dadtakes him to themarket. Hamisi sees a boywearing a beautifulshirt. "That is a veryfine shirt," thinksHamisi. "I wish I had a shirt likethat boy," says Hamisi. "Look, she is sellingthose special shirts,"says Hamisi. "Dad,please buy one for me,"he asks. "Hamisi, I have to buyyour uniform," saysdad. "I do not have enoughmoney for that shirt,"says dad. Hamisi's dad pays forthe uniform. He issurprised when he getsthe change. There isenough money left overto buy a shirt! It is Hamisi's lucky day!Which shirt will hechoose?

Tara could not sit still! The train seemed to be going very slowly. Tara peered out through the window. Lights winked from windows in tall buildings.As everyone in the bogey prepared to sleep, one passenger asked Tara, “Beti, I hope you are not running away from home?”“No, no!” said Tara. Early in the morning, Tara got off the train at Meenapur. She walked towards the banks of the river Ganga and got into a crowded boat.“Who could this girl be, travelling all alone?” wondered many people on the boat.As Tara got out, the boatman asked, “Have you run away from home?”Tara smiled and said, “No, no, sir, I am going home!” Tara came to a forest. She took out her camera. A deer looked at her and seemed to be asking what she was doing there! Tara aimed her camera and clicked.“I've come home, dear deer, I've come home to the village of my ancestors.” As the sun set, Tara started walking on a rope bridge. The bridge swung gently with her steps. She smiled as she thought of what awaited her on the other side. Once on the other side, Tara stopped to take out her map and plan her way forward. She closed her eyes and took a deep breath.Ah, the earthy smell of green trees and plants in this forest was lovely! Tara made a small bonfire. She ate some food that she had packed and settled down under the sky. Stars twinkled like friends. Tomorrow she would cross the forest by foot, and then take a bus to the village where her great grandparents lived.For today, Tara Prakash, famous wildlife photographer, was just going to sleep under the stars and dream about home. Dear Reader,Have you tried counting the stars? How many stars do you think you can count?If you had to stay alone in a forest, name some of the things that you should have with you.Which are the days in a month when stars are most visible to the eye? Why?

One day we saw a strange black cloud move in from far away.It was a swarm of locusts, headed for our village. The locusts attacked farms and ate the crops. We tried to chase the locusts away.But they would not go. We made noises and screamed, "Wuwi, wuwi!"But the locusts would not go. We hit tins and metal pots.But the locusts would not go. We lit fires to chase the locusts away.But they would not go. They settled on trees.Branches broke because of the weight of all the locusts. Then we remembered that roasted locusts are good to eat!Everyone started to collect the locusts in sacks and nets. Children brought gourds and filled them with locusts. We roasted locusts and fried them.We even dried locusts for the cold season.But still, there were so many locusts. Then, the next morning, the locusts flew away. The cloud left our village. When the farmers saw their farms, they moaned loudly: "Our farms are destroyed!"The villagers cried, "What will we eat this year? What have the locusts left us?"

"You are such a boring, ordinary circle," said Spike to Spot, as he bit into the cake. "Look at me. I'm strong, sharp and poky. I can make you cry!" "Eeeeeee! Spikes!" shrieked Spot."Yes, aren't I scary?" said Spike."Not you! Look there. S... S... Spikier... stronger... sharper... pokier... teeth... shark swimming this way!" "Shark?" yelped Spike, looking out into the sea.Spot quickly pulled out her red gel tube."Hee hee. Boring spots coming up," sniggered Spot. "Huh? Where's the shark?" said Spike. Spike picked up his cake to take another bite."Eeeeeee! Spots!" he shrieked."Yes, aren't they boring? Probably just harmless chicken pox spots," said Spot. "Boring! Harmless! What's harmless about spots? Blech!" screamed Spike. "Spots are scary!"

Oscar has a problemwith his eyes.He cannot see any fish. But he will not eat hiscarrots. Johnnie the seahorsesays, "Oscar, eat yourcarrots!" But Oscar does not likethe taste of carrots. "Carrots will help you tosee better," saysJohnnie. Oscar goes to thedoctor.Oscar and Johnnie waitfor Dr Shakes. Dr Shakes says,"Glasses will help youto see better." Oscar does not want towear glasses. But the glasses helpOscar see the fishes.Now he eats his carrotswith fish!

Baby Thangwang likes to talk.GAA! GEE! GLUG GLUG, he says.Bhalluka, the brown bear likes to talk too.GRRRR. GROOOOOWWWW.KHURRR.Baby Thangwang and Bhalluka the bear like to talk to each other. One day, Thangwang lost his little red toy. He began to cry. Don't cry please, said Bhalluka!HA- HOO, HOO-HA! GRR-GROO!Bhalluka's tummy went in and out when he talked.Thangwang looked at the tummy and tapped it – TAP-TAP-TAP. TAPP! THUPP! That made Bhalluka burp. Loudly! BURP BURPPPPPP!And out came many things that he had put into his mouth. OOPS! Out came the little red top.TONGG - it hit Thangwang on the head.TIDDINGGGG - it fell near Baby Thangwang's little feet. Baby Thangwang and Bhalluka the bear began to laugh. They were so happy that they began to sing loudly.GLUG-GRRR GAA-GAA-KHURR KHURR, GLUG-GRRR, GAA-GAA-KHURR khurr... and then they went to sleep.(Thangwang slept for a night. Bhalluka slept for five months!) What Do We Know About Bears?In India, there are three kinds of bears - The Himalayan Black Bear, The Brown Bear and The Sloth Bear. The bear in this book looks like a brown bear.Bears like fresh growing shoots of grass. They also like fruits like apples, peaches and mulberries. Though brown bears do kill goats and other animals, they usually do not attack human beings.During winter in cold places, bears in the wild do not get enough to eat. What do they do then? They just go to sleep for a very long time! This long sleep is called hibernation. They can sleep without eating, drinking or - even going to the bathroom - for more than 100 days!

Hello, I'm Ntombi. I'm a little girllike other little girls, except...I have a crocodile in my body.You can't see him, but I know he isthere. His name is Horrible InVader.He hides in my body and doesn't doany harm to my friends. He won't leave my body and go intoyours if you sit next to me, or holdmy hand. He won't leave my body and jumpinto yours even if you share yourlunch with me, or lie down on thefloor together when we have a rest. My crocodile, Horrible InVader, hasbeen with me since I was born. Helikes eating all the soldiers in mybody that fight germs and stop mefrom getting sick.When he eats too many of mysoldiers, I get very sick. Then Icannot go to school and play withmy friends. I have to take my medicine everyday at the same time. Otherwisemy crocodile wakes up in a badmood and eats my soldiers again. Idon't want him to do that, so Iremind my Gogo to give me myspecial medicine right on time. If I eat good food like vegetablesand fruit, my soldiers in my bodyget stronger and don't let mycrocodile catch them. I think hegoes to sleep for a while, becausethen I am well and strong and ableto play with my friends again. I amso happy when he goes to sleepand I am able to play. My Gogo took me to the clinic awhile ago and got somethingspecial to feed my crocodile. Itmakes him go to sleep, and hedoesn't eat my soldiers. Then I amable to do all the fun things thatother children do, like run and climband dance. I love my Gogo very much. She isgood and kind to me. She gives megood food to eat and sees that Itake extra vitamins as well to keepmy soldiers strong, so that I don'tget sick. If I do get sick she takesme to the clinic straight away, sothat I can get medicine to make mebetter.I love it when she puts me on herlap and reads stories to me before Igo to bed. After Gogo has put me to bed, Ithink of many things. I think aboutlearning to read at big school. If Ikeep taking my special medicinethat puts my crocodile to sleep, Iwill look after my Gogo and readher stories when she is very old andcan't see so well anymore.When I am a grown woman, I wouldlike to study. I want to help to find amedicine that will put all thecrocodiles in other peoples' bodies,to sleep forever. I will learn to live with my crocodileand keep him asleep as much as Ican.I will have as many friends as I can.And have as much fun as I canevery day My Gogo, my aunts and uncles, andfriends love me, even though I havea crocodile called Horrible InVaderliving in my body.

Grannies come in many sizes,And they give us funny surprises!Did you know my granny juggles?With her, I like to snuggle! A great spotter of things is she,She's not one to let things be!An expert at tossing everything in sight,People around get quite a fright! Kitchens, office, the street or the market,She juggles everywhere and cannot stop it!It's hard for her to check herself,No one dares to offer her help! Umbrellas and glasses go flying in the air,Spoiltsports now begin to stare!Juicy mangoes land with a splash,Grandfather's teeth begin to gnash! Coloured balls he brings as a gift,Says, “Toss them all without a twist!”Granny blushes and feels quite shy,That she has this lovely gift to try! Grandfather now sleeps through the night,Granny juggles till the morning light!Her shadow dances on the curtain,She's the best, I am certain! Dear Reader,Have you ever seen jugglers in a circus?What do they throw in the air?Do you think it is possible to juggle with items like the ones used by this granny?

Bathtime is Jack'sfavourite part ofthe day.'I'll be back in afew moments,'says his mom. 'Make sure to cleanbehind your ears.' There's a SWOOSH.And a swish of a tail. And then... Jack's bathtub safari begins! Look at what's coming! There's a twistand a turn...Something'sgrowing...It's a... Tooot! There's a RUMBLE!It's going upUPUP... And... SPLASH! There's a SPLOSH.Something bubbles.It's time to... AAAAAAH.....But something's lurking in the background.... ROAR! 'Time to get out. I hopeyou're clean andready for bed.'

Why haven't you done your homework?Miss, it's all the cat's fault. If she had not got stuck on the tree, I would not have taken the ladder to climb it. If I had not taken the ladder to climb it, I would not have needed to fix it.If I had not needed to fix it, I wouldn't have woken up the baby. If I had not woken up the baby, my mother would not have rushed out of the kitchen.If my mother had not rushed out of the kitchen, the monkey would not have got in. If the monkey had not got in, he would not have eaten up all the food.If he had not eaten up all the food, my father would not have bought rotis and chicken curry at the tea-shop. If my father had not bought rotis and chicken curry at the tea-shop, the dog would not have followed him home. If the dog had not followed him home, he would not have eaten my homework. So, you're saying the dog ate your homework? Yes, Miss, it's all the cat's fault!

Chicken and Millipede were friends. But they were always competing with each other. One day they decided to play football to see who the best player was. They went to the football field and started their game. Chicken was fast, but Millipede was faster. Chicken kicked far, but Millipede kicked further. Chicken started to feel grumpy. They decided to play a penalty shoot-out. First Millipede was goal keeper. Chicken scored only one goal. Then it was the chicken's turn to defend the goal. Millipede kicked the ball and scored.Millipede dribbled the ball and scored. Millipede headed the ball and scored. Millipede scored five goals. Chicken was furious that she lost. She was a very bad loser. Millipede started laughing because his friend was making such a fuss. Chicken was so angry that she opened her beak wide and swallowed the millipede. As Chicken was walking home, she met Mother Millipede. Mother Millipede asked, "Have you seen my child?" Chicken didn't say anything.Mother Millipede was worried. Then Mother Millipede heard a tiny voice. "Help me mom!" cried the voice. Mother Millipede looked around and listened carefully. The voice came from inside the chicken. Mother Millipede shouted, "Use your special power my child!" Millipedes can make a bad smell and a terrible taste. Chicken began to feel ill. Chicken burped. Then she swallowed and spat. Then she sneezed and coughed. And coughed. The millipede was disgusting! Chicken coughed until she coughed out the millipede that was in her stomach. Mother Millipede and her child crawled up a tree to hide. From that time, chickens and millipedes were enemies.

I Am Going To Explore The World. Across the Rivers Past the Cities Through The Forests Over The Hills It Is A Beautiful World! Who Made It? God Knows! Or... Maybe Not.

Once upon a time, a little boy named Eissa was athome. He did not like to listen. One day his parentsgave him a song,"Never eat x2, without washing,your hands. Never eat without washing your hands".Eissa didn't want to listen at all, so he ignored hisparents. Neither did his sister Aysha He ran into a big lion on the way to the forest. He said "Release me and i will give you purefruit that does not need to be washed at all." "Really? What type of fruit." Asked Eissa. "Okay. I will set you free" said Eissa. "On condition you give me a pure fruit" said Eissa. Thelion was very happy and gave Eissa a pure apple. Eissa ate the apple happily andwent home not thinking about it. Hesoon got stomach upset. Hisparents and siblings saw that therewas something wrong with him.Eissa was pretending not to be sickA few days passed and his stomachupset did not stop at all. He finallytold his parents about his issues."Did you eat anything bad?" askedhis mother. ?Did you eat somethingbad?" "Why did you eat that fruit Eissa?" His elder brothersKen and Sean asked him." A lion told me that it wasclean and..." said Eissa before Ken interrupted him."Wait! Let me get this strait! YOU SPOKE TO A LION"said Ken. "HAHAHAHAH" his brothers burst intolaughter. Eissa felt very ashamed, embarrassed andsad. He ran to his room and banged the door angrily. 'Why do they make fun of me. Why.I feel so embarrassed. I wish i hadnever accepted to eat that applethe talking lion gave me"

Ball. My ball. My red ball. My big red ball. I kick. I kick my ball. I kick my red ball. I kick my red ball hard! Where? Where is my ball? Where is my ball now? Where is my red ballnow? It is up. It is high up. It is high up in the sky. It is high up in the sky.It is over the moon.It is gone!

I parked myself right under the big orange lantern and asked, “Do I look like a Lantern Queen?”I waited for exactly three minutes. To my dismay, no one replied.Rajjo was really busy in a deep conversation. “Rajjo, Rajjo, Rajjo, Rajjo!” I yelled.She finally tore away from the deep discussion and looked at me.“Do I look like a lantern queen?” I asked, again.“You're mad.” said Rajjo. She looked away and promptly got back to her seemingly important discussion.I now turned to Shriya. Surprisingly she was already staring at me. “Can you see how I'm letting that question just pass?” she said with her sharp eyebrow raised.Sigh! The life of a Lantern Queen is going to be difficult; I thought and looked at Shruti.Shruti was also already staring at me. But she had an I-am-observing-you look all over her face. After a close examination she finally said, “You look more like you have a jelly fish on your head.”“So, I'm the Jelly Fish Queen?” I asked.“Not a queen really...” said Shruti.“So a layperson with a jelly fish on the head?” I confirmed.“Yes.” she said.“Oh! Okay.” I said and sat down.What does Shruti know about the Lantern Queen, I thought.They are all jealous. They don't want to acknowledge the fact that I am now the Lantern Queen.It had to be! It is not every day that a huge lantern appears right about your head.It had to mean something. And I knew exactly what it meant. Only these guys were being oblivious to the facts.I decided that I had to leave for the day. I now had the responsibility of being the Lantern Queen.I looked at my watch and saw it was almost 6.00 in the evening. So I started packing up.I knew being the Lantern Queen was not going to be easy. I had to open up my mind and think profound thoughts. I had to let the light come in.As I walked to the station, I saw a lady running behind a taxi. This was a rather common site in the mad Mumbai city.But today, I pushed myself to look beyond the obvious and find the real meaning hidden behind this scene. What am I missing? There had to be something, I thought.Think like the Lantern Queen! I told myself.Then, out of nowhere, it came to me. I figured that running behind anything in life was a complete waste of energy. Running behind marks as a student, behind money as an adult, was all futile.So, I took a conscious call. If the thing I want can walk with me at my pace, then it's going to be worth the effort. If I have to keep running behind something, then it is simply not going to be sustainable. For how long will I keep running?And anyways, I didn't enjoy running much.After this great analysis, I felt really enlightened. I had opened up my mind and this role-play was now becoming really interesting.So with a spring in my step, I marched on towards the station.I was carefully looking left to cross the road when a cabbie came by in full speed and splashed a whole lot of muck over my jeans.If this were yet another day, I would have started running behind the cabbie while showering him with all the curse words I knew of.But today, I kept my cool. I let him go and thought, why did this happen?This time, the bulb in my head didn't go on. So, I did the most fun thing I could do in that moment. I walked right into that puddle of muck and jumped up and down till my whole top was dirty as well.By the time I was out, I saw a million eyes staring at me. But, I didn't feel embarrassed. I was now the Lantern Queen, and they didn't know that the Lantern Queen could do anything.I picked up my pace once again and walked towards the station.Once I got onto my platform, I saw the most miraculous sight. Slowly pulling in was a 12-coach train that was completely empty!For a city dweller, this situation is worthy of great emotions. I could feel a surge of emotions swell in me. I was elated beyond words.I promptly stepped into the train and made myself comfortable for the ride back home.Train journeys back home were my most favourite part of the day. I could feel the stress release my system. This was also my thinking time.And so, I put my thinking cap on.I pondered on what would the Lantern Queen do in this valuable free time?I didn't have to think too long, as a fellow passenger soon gave me the answer by throwing a bag full of garbage out of the window.I gently got up and sat next to that lady and told her, “Aunty, please don't throw things out of the window.”“Why not?” she asked almost confused.“Cause it can result in the spread of many diseases, aunty! If you have thrown some kind of food, then it will encourage the rodents and rats on the tracks. It is not at all hygienic.” I said.“Is it? I didn't think of the outcome when I threw the bag outside. I have seen everyone do it, so I do it out of habit now.” explained the lady.“Now you know better, no? So next time please wait till the platform comes? There are dustbins there!” I said.“Okay, I will listen to you young lady. We must change with the times.” said the aunty.We both exchanged really wide smiles and I felt really proud of myself.I was shaken out of my thoughts when I heard the voice of the announcer announcing that the next destination was my station.I dusted my outfit a little and got up.The Lantern Queen now had to face her mother. This I knew was going to be a tough one.After a quick auto ride from station to home, I found myself standing outside the door of my house.I was a little worried now. My clothes were costly. I didn't want to be greeted by an angry mother.So again, I forced myself to think like the Lantern Queen. And the bulb in my head did flicker, but it came right on.I quickly rummaged my bag for the house key. I knew I had it in there somewhere. Soon enough, I found it.I opened the door and ran into my room. “Hi Maa! I'm home,” I yelled as I crossed my parent's room.By the time my mom came to see what was up, I was safely inside my bathroom.“What are you doing inside?” enquired a suspicious mother.“Ma! I am taking a bath!” I yelled.“Why?” continued the suspicious mother.“Because I feel like it Ma! I'm all sweaty.”“Okay. I will see you at the dinner table. Be quick.” she ended.I knew well that she was not convinced. Mothers have this instinct. They just know everything.But this time I had escaped because I was the Lantern Queen. I washed my clothes squeaky clean and realised that a mistake is not really a mistake if one can undo it.When I came out, mom was at the table.She had made hot soup with fried bread.I was so hungry that I gulped down two bowl-fulls.By the end of it all, my full stomach was making me really drowsy.“Can I go to sleep, ma?” I asked her.“Are you sure everything is fine? Don't you want to share some office gossip today?” she asked.“Yes ma! All is fine! I promise. I'm just sleepy.” I said.“Fine, go to sleep. But you have to catch-up with me tomorrow.” she said before I pecked her on the cheek and headed straight to bed.When I felt the warmth of the sun on my face, I knew it was morning.I opened my eyes and saw that I was up much before the alarm.This came as a pleasant surprise.I felt like a true queen in her chamber. I got off the bed with great grace and poise.I decided I will wear the royal purple and picked out my clothes from the wardrobe.In no time, I was ready.I went to my parent's room to find both of them happily chatting away over a cup of tea.“Good morning from the queen!” I announced before I walked in.“But aren't you our princess?” asked dad puzzled.“Dad, I am multitasking!” I replied.“Ahh, ok your highness.” replied dad.With dad, it was always like this. No questions asked. Just go with the flow.I had a quick cup of tea with them discussed the beautiful weather. As soon I was done with my cup, I took off for work.The Lantern Queen was never late, I knew that.My journey to work went as smooth as my morning. It flowed like a calm stream of the river. No jerks, no breaks, no peaks, no falls. No extremes.I reached office a little before time. I punched-in and walked towards my team. With an air of superiority, I went and sat at my desk.I put on the computer and looked up at my lantern.What I saw now, shook me.The lantern was gone! It was gone?I didn't understand the meaning of this. I stood up to see where it had moved.I stared at the receptionist with great anger. My lantern was right above her head.“Who did that?” I asked Shruti, pointing towards the lantern.“Must be of office boys. They are the ones in charge of the Diwali decorations, no? They must have moved it.”“But, it was right above my head yesterday!” I complained.“Yes, but now it is above the reception desk where everyone can see it and feel the Diwali feel!” said Shruti putting some sense in the discussion.I turned away from her and sat down.This was very upsetting. Was I the Lantern Queen just for a day? I didn't want to stop being the Lantern Queen. I was enjoying each and every minute of it.This was depressing. There had to be a way out.“Purvi, will you please come here?” called out my editor.Like an obedient zombie, I got up and walked towards her desk.“You know we are coming up with our Diwali Special issue, right?” she asked“Yes ma'am.” I replied.“So here is something that is going to make your day brighter. You have to come up with a fictional character and its story. We will carry this as a continuing series in the magazine till Diwali. This character has to talk about the festivities that are seen in the city right before the actual festival. Like a build-up, you know?”My mind was racing now. “Yes, I get it.”“This is quite a big opportunity for an intern, Purvi. You are getting it because the rest of the team has their hands full already. And if you get this right, we might consider you for a permanent employee too.” said my editor.“Ma'am, umm, uh, err. Can this character be called the Lantern Queen?” I asked with all hope.My editor fell silent for a few seconds. I could feel my heart beat pick up. I was sure it was audible to everyone else too now.“Lantern Queen?” she asked,“Hmm. Okay, that does have a ring to it. Quickly write your character sketch and treatment and send it across to me. Let's get this working.” she concluded.What! Did I just hear that right? This had to be the best day of my life!It was right then I realised that, by appearing above my head the previous day, the lantern had changed something. Its light had touched me and transformed me for life. It had ensured that I could not only be the Lantern Queen forever, but also write about it publically!Somewhere deep down inside, I just knew this was my very own big break.This Diwali was going to be full of lights, laughter and happiness.The End

A walk in Zanzibar,what do you see?Shops selling sweets,in very narrow streets. A swim in Zanzibar,what do you see?Changu, Kibua, Tasi,Pono, Jodari na Kambisi. A drive in Zanzibar,what do you see?Animals in a jungle,watching at an angle A dance in Zanzibar,what do you see?Swahili, English and Arab,all dancing Taarab. A drink in Zanzibar,what do you see?miwa, madafu juicy,coffee and tea are spicy. A trip to Zanzibar,do you wish to go back?

Once there lived a granny, mamma, a kid. Then a monkey sneaked through the window and ate up the fruits. The cat ate up the fruits in the garden. That's all.

Inyang was an herds-boy. His father trusted himwith the duty. He loved his only son for everyevening the cows would come home with fullstomachs. One day, Inyang requested hisfather to allow him migrate withother young men with cows insearch of green pasture.Thiswas a tradition practiced intheir pastoralist community. likeother fathers he gave thepermission. For a long time in this newplace, Inyang grew thin due tolack of enough food.There wasnobody to cook for him, all hedepended on was the little milkfrom one of the cows. He one day went in the forest and caught a weaver bird. He spared the life of thisbird and sent it as a messenger back home.He instructed it to deliver the hischallenges to his parents.The bird accepted as appreciation for his mercy. The bird set off.It flew for long but with rests along the way.The bird on its waythought of how friendly Inyang was, it promised to do all it can to save him aswell.This spirit kept it flying and flying! The bird flew and flew, with allthe air currents and windsnothing could stop the mission.From high up it could spot thevillage. Soon it reached at the village. From Inyangs'description it easily identified their home.Thebird was happy for finally identifying this hut! Form the top of the hut and with a soft andunique sound it began singing.At first itattracted no attention but as the sweet musiccontinued people's attention was caught.Thebird seemed to send some message andpeople got closer to it. The bird after the crowd gathered, explained how Inyang was suffering alone inthe grassing field.It appealed to his parents to save him.His parents thenprepared food and planned to go for Inyang. They carried food for him among otherthings.The set off their journey across riversand through forests.Finally they got there. They found Inyang under the tree with his herdof cows in the field.Although the cows lookedhealthy, Inyang wasn't.He got thin and hadempty stomach. The cows had eaten to their capacity.The greengrass was fresh.The cows mooed and enjoyedthis wonderful grassland. Meanwhile, after greetings Inyang was fed with the delicious and appetizingfoods his parents carried for him.He enjoyed his meal as the parents admired thegrassland in the horizon. His father went for the cows...He was pleased of his son and how a realyshepherd he was. Inyang ate enough and drank too. His stomachwas no longer empty but full.He was happy ofhow his parents responded quickly for his help. The parents then convinced Inyang to come back home.They told him how therains had started falling at home.Inyang hesitantly accepted to go back.Heassembled his cows and tarted the journey. In his heart and mind, Inyang was grateful tothe bird for saving his life too.

There was once a lady of 89, who loved juggling. Well, guess what? She juggled with donkeys, books, toys and everything she would find. Isn't that crazy? Yesterday she did this, I'll tell you about that day. It all started on a Sunday morning at 6 o'clock. She dreamed that: she went to her great grand son's class and juggled with everything. OMG did she laugh! But there was a problem, she wanted to make the dream true! OH No! Shouted her husband when he heard the news. Her husband was 91 years old. When she went to drop her great grand son, she asked him: My dear child, could I come to your school today? Her great grandson got scared....... He also knew about his great grandmom. But what could he do? So he said ok she was overjoyed to hear that I love you she said. After they reached OH what a drama happened, this is what happened: she juggled with books, toys etc when the teacher came, she saw that every one was crying.What happened? she asked. All the children whined and said: SHE and pointed at her. What happened aunty? She asked to his great grandmom. I juggled with their stuff she said. Ooh so that's the thing said the teacher. The teacher said: If you like juggling, why don't you juggle for us on our annual day? asked the teacher. Sure she said, but for now I will get chocolates for them.THE END

It is November.I am dreaming of Diwali. Amma says it is the Festival Of Lights. My Grandma read me a book about Diwali.The book said Diwali is celebrated because Goodness won over Evil. My Grandma says if I do good things, I win too.So I always share my things with my friends. Amma, Appa and I went to buy new clothes for DiwaliI bought a few dresses in my favorite colors. Amma and Appa made a lot of yummy food!Mixture, chakli, ladoo, barfi and even chocolate cake. My favorite is the ribbon pakoda and Peda. Make the Diwali Peda Recipe!Ingredients:Sweet condensed milk – 1 can (14 oz)Milk powder – 3 cupsGhee or clarified butter – 1/4 cupSaffron – 2-3 strandsLuke warm water – 3 tbspsLuke warm milk – 3 tbspsFood color - few drops (colors of your choice)Steps:Soak the saffron in luke warm water for 5 minutesMix the sweet condensed milk, milk powder and the soaked saffron with water in microwave safe bowl.Mix well and microwave for a minute.Now add the ghee and milk and mix well.Let it microwave for 3 minutes and keep stirring it for every one minute.Don't leave it without stirring for more than 1.5 minutes.Let it cool down for about 20 minutes.Now makes balls out of the cooked mixture and make your desired shapes. Tomorrow is Diwali! We decorate our house with Torans. We then decided to make a big kolam. On Diwali day, I woke up first. Appa and Amma were surprised.I even washed my hair without crying. I wore my new dress.Amma wore a saree.Appa and I helped her with the pleats. Appa said Amma looked like a queen. I thought she looked like a Princess! We ate all the yummy food.I also helped Amma take some goodies to my friend's house. In the evening, we took out the decorated diyas and lit them.Amma Appa asked me to be careful. Then we went to light some sparklers.Our house looked so beautiful. It was the best Diwali we celebrated!

A walk in kampala,what do you see?Shops selling clothes,in very congested streets. A shower in Nakivuubo,what do you see?owino market, taxi park, play ground,petrol station, mukwano arcade. A drive in kampala,what do you see?very tall buildings, very many cars of differenttypes. Languages in kampala,what do you hear?Luganda, Swahili, English and Lunyankole,all are being spoken. A breakfast in Kampala,what do you see?menvu, black tea, milk tea and Bushera. A trip to kampala,do you wish to go back?

" Amma, I want a new kind of celebration said Mili to her mother.Amma looked at her older brother and they smiled as they had decided that this time it will not be the cakes, balloons, or the usual decorations.This time Mili will have her home decorated like it is done for Deepavali, just as Mili finds it the happiest festival in the year. Soon Anna (older brother) got ready with the decorations of putting a new toran at the door, flowers strung on the walls, windows and Amma started keeping the diya's ready for the evening.As the clock struck 6'o clock in the evening her home was looking beautiful as though it was Deepavali on her birthday. Suddenly she saw the entire neighborhood were lighting diyas and children were getting ready to come to Mili's house. " Oh wow," Mili thought to herself. It was really beautiful. The entire street was looking glittering with traditional decorations. Everyone was happy to celebrate Mili's birthday. Her friends came with mithai's, dressed in traditional Indian attire and everyone had a great time.There was antakshari competition, laddoo eating competition, best Indian dressed child. Amma had made small packets of beautiful diyas to be given as gifts to the children who won. Everyone had fun. Mili felt this was her most special birthday.

My dinosaur and I look at my birds in the sky. My birds and I meet Chimpanzee in the tree. My chimpanzee and I play with my giraffes on the hill. My giraffes and I make monkey balls from clay. My monkey and I eat bananas with Gorilla every day. My gorilla and monkey fear Tortoise in every way. Tortoise and I go home very slowly with Snake. Snake and I love to hiss and sing songs by the lake. My entire family and I live together in great happiness!

One day Vihaan wanted to play. Vihaan is a small baby and cannot talk. So he started crying. His Mamma heard him cry and thought of something to make Vihaan laugh. So she called the BooBoo Bear! The BooBoo bear was a jolly golly lolly-loving bear! So Vihaan's Mamma gave him a lolly and asked him to meet Vihaan. BooBoo laughed and went to meet little Vihaan! He carried MushyMushy, his pet mushroom with him. "VIHAAN, look!," said BooBoo. "Meet my lushy wushy MushyMushy!" BooBoo threw MushyMushy in the air as Vihaan looked. Boinggggg! Zoinnggggg! Toingggg! fell Mushy-Mushy on Vihaan's round head and on the ground. Vihaan looked at it and THEN.... WAAAAAAAAAAA! BAAAAAAAAAA! GAAAAAAAAA! he cried. Vihaan's Papa came running and kissed Vihaan's doly roly poly head. WAAAAAAAAAAA! BAAAAAAAAAA! GAAAAAAAAA! he cried. Vihaan's Mamma came running and kissed Vihaan's doly roly poly head. WAAAAAAAAAAA! BAAAAAAAAAA! GAAAAAAAAA! he cried. Vihaan's Aachi came running and kissed Vihaan's doly roly poly head. Aachi then whispered something in BooBoo bear's ritty-mitty-gritty ears. "Don't cry Vihaan!," said BooBoo. "Why don't we sing a rappy-jappy-happy SONG!," he said. Vihaan stopped crying and looked at BooBoo with his big beautiful eyes. So BooBoo started singing this song:Gooshy Booshy Looooty hoi ik laaaaaanchThen the Booboo bear said No No No!Then the Booboo bear said Dont cry cryGooshy booshy looty hoi ik laaanch! 'HOHOHO HIHIHI!,' laughed Vihaan! 'HIRHIRHIR! HARHARHAR!' laughed BooBoo!'Heeheehee Teeheeeheee!' laughed Mushy-Mushy'HAHAHA HAHAHA' laughed Mamma, Papa and Aachi!

Sundya is a pupil at Buwesaprimary school. Every day he goes to school andevery one likes him at school butnever brushes his teeth. He keeps laughing and smiling evenwhen the other pupils are not. He shares a desk with other fourpupils but they dislike and alwaysshout at him. At play time, all his friends leavehim alone. Sundya is now worried because noone wants to be near him though heperforms well in class. The teacher then advices Sundya toclean his teeth and mouth everyday. Next day he comes back at schoolwith the teeth so white and themouth clean.Now every one is back to him likebefore.

All of us went to the funfair. Father bought brotherfancy glasses.Mother bought me abright blue cap.The baby got sugarcandy. On the way home, avery strong wind came.It blew my cap away. My cap got stuck on abranch of a big old tree. I cried a lot.And I did not eat mydinner. Later that night, themoon came up. Itlooked at my cap in thebig old tree. The moon tried on mycap. It smiled happily.I had to smile too. After school the nextday, my mother gaveme a shiny new redcap."The moon sent it," shesaid. That night, both themoon and I wore ourcaps and smiled.We were happy. Do you think the sunneeds a hat? Guess which cap I amwearing today!

Toto loved animals. He worked in a zoo.One day he saw that Gogo, the gorilla's cage was empty.Toto was shocked. He set off to find him. Gogo must have run towards the jungle, thought Toto.He looked behind every bush and tree.The animals in the forest watched Toto.But Toto could not find Gogo anywhere. Toto whipped out his field glasses.He scanned the area across the river.Was Gogo on the other side? Gogo was not to be found.Toto took a deep breath and dived into the river.What if Gogo was holding his breath and hiding underwater? Moti, the dog took pity on him.He barked and looked towards the store nearby.Ah! Toto finally had a lead. Toto flung open the door of the store.There was Gogo, happily munching on bananas. What a big mess Gogo had made!Toto just stared at him, not able to say a word! Dear Reader,Would you like to work in a zoo?What would be the most fun to do, if you worked in a zoo?How many bananas do you think a gorilla can eat in one sitting?How many bananas do you eat?

In a village there was adisagreement among peopleof different occupations.Everyone thought their workwas the most important! The teacher said that he hadthe most important occupation."Without teachers you couldnot go to school and learn." The builder said that he hadthe most important occupation."Without builders you wouldnot have schools to learn inor houses to sleep in." The carpenter said that he hadthe most important occupation."Without carpenters you wouldhave no furniture for yourhouses and schools." The doctor claimed that he hadthe most important occupation."Without doctors and nursesyou could get sick and die." The farmer said that she hadthe most important occupation."Without farmers you wouldyou would not have foodto eat." The student argued thatstudents had the mostimportant work."Without students, therewould be no teachers,builders, doctors, farmers,or carpenters." Eventually everyone agreedthat all the occupations areimportant.We need teachers, builders,doctors, farmers, andcarpenters.But everyone has to be astudent first!

Ammu did not have a puppy.But she told everyone in school that she did. "My puppy's name is Shankar," she told Venu."Shankar eats bananas," she told Abdul."Shankar is black," she told Kumari."Shankar plays ball with me," she told Unni. So Venu, Abdul, Kumari, and Unni told Ammu that they would come home.To see Shankar. Ammu shook her head."You can't," she said. "Why?" they asked."Because Shankar is scared of crowds," said Ammu."Then we'll play with him one by one," said Kumari. "You can't," Ammu said."Why?" asked Unni."Because we're going out today," said Ammu. "Then we'll come tomorrow," said Abdul."We'll bring bananas for him," said Venu."We'll play with him one by one," said Kumari."Okay," said Ammu. She didn't know what else to say. That evening, Ammu asked Achan if he would buy a puppy for her." We'll see," said Achan."But it's urgent," said Ammu. Achan laughed. Ammu didn't eat dinner. She felt sick. She didn't want to think about tomorrow.In the morning, Amma said, "You look ill."She touched Ammu's forehead. A fever! "Stay at home today," Amma said.So Ammu skipped school.She lay in bed all day. She didn't smile at all.All she ate was a slice of bread. In the evening, Venu, Abdul, Kumari, and Unni came home."Why didn't you come to school today?" asked Unni."I am sick," said Ammu. "We saw Shankar," said Abdul."Where?" asked Ammu."In the garden," said Kumari. "He didn't want to play ball," said Abdul.Suddenly, Ammu got up from bed. She ran outside. It was true. There was a puppy in her garden. Shankar!"But he's not black," said Venu. "He's brown.'""Oh," said Ammu. "I made that up!" "He's not afraid of crowds," said Abdul."Oh," said Ammu. "I made that up!" "He doesn't like playing ball," said Unni."Oh," said Ammu. "I made that up!" "But he loves bananas," said Kumari."I told you, didn't I?" smiled Ammu happily.

Clouds are a big sign of rain. it is very hot today.Why? Clouds can hide the sun.I like clouds so much . is it raining out side ?"Asked teacher Nabune" is it windy ? Tell me more about weather........

It was the middle of the summer holidays. "Look, Malu!" yelled Moidootty. "Giant, juicy mangoes! How I wish I could have a few!" sighed Moidootty. "Hmm..." said Malu. "What we need is a demon. He can shake the tree and make it rain mangoes! So they ran back home to see what their grandmother's magical recipe book had to say about calling demons."Look! Here's just the spell we need," cried Malu. "Boil a nail and some keys,Add some money, if you please.. "Now top it with some rice and dice.Your demon will be here in a trice!" Suddenly, a loud rumble shook the house. Malu and Moidootty ran outside. The sky had turned green and the sun had gone white! Then a bolt of silver lightning shot through the sky. And a loud, scary voice echoed from the clouds. "Who dares to wake up Aamasura?!" roared the demon. "A-Ha! I smell mangoes! I have not had mangoes in centuries! Now I wont stop until I've eaten every single one!" Aamasura opened his mouth wide and began to swallow everything around him. He even gobbled up the clouds in the sky! "OH NO!" cried the children. "Why did we meddle with magic? Now that Aamasura has eaten all the clouds, he will gobble up every single mango on the tree. And then...." "Look!" shouted Malu. "There goes Ummumma! She can help us out!" The children ran to their grandmother and told her everything.Ummumma laughed. "Aamasura may look big and scary. But all demons are afraid of water! They simply cant bear to be clean! Ummumma flicked her blue sari across the sky... .... and rain clouds began to appear. And then it began to rain! "AAAARRRGGHH!! I'm wet! I'm cold! I'm clean! How horrible!!" BAM! Aamasura vanished in a flash of white light. And Moidootty ran to catch the mangoes as they fell from the tree.

This is Matende. Matende cried all the time. When his mother fed him, Matende cried. When Matende was put down to rest, he still cried. When his mother changed his nappies, Matende continued to cry. When his mother carried him on her shoulder, Matende cried more. When he fell asleep, Matende looked like he would start to cry again. Matende's mother looked at her son.She did not know what was wrong with him.

There was a man who sold oilthat he made in his house. And in that house therewere rats. Lots of rats! Every day the rats lookedat the oil and said, "Howcan we get that oil?" The rats tried to put theirmouths into the bottles. But thespaces in the bottles were toosmall. The rats tried to tip over the bottles. But the oil would not flow out. The rats had a meeting todiscuss the problem. After awhile, one rat said, "Let's putour tails into the bottles. Thenwe can lick the oil off our tails." And that's exactly what the rats did. They put their tails into the bottles,and then licked the oil off each other's tails. The rats did this until theyhad licked up all the oil. The man of the house sawthat all his oil was gone! And that was the end of it.

It was the strange sound coming from the living room that woke the little boy up. It was strange because it was 4:32 a.m. and no one should be in the living room making noises at 4:32 a.m. Of course, it was also strange because the sound - a cross between grunting and mooing - made it seem like there was a buffalo in the living room and that, the little boy thought, was very, very strange.After waiting for another grunt-moo (just to make sure he wasn't dreaming), the boy climbed out of bed, pulled his sagging Batman pyjamas up higher and opened his bedroom door a crack. He smiled when he saw a water buffalo standing by the couch, not because he loved water buffaloes like he loved dogs, but because it meant he was right and the boy loved being right.The buffalo let out another grunt-moo, as if in protest. It looked thoroughly bored and seemed to just want to go back to where it came from. The man sitting on the water buffalo - a fat man with leathery blue skin, a golden crown and a dhoti made of red silk - whacked the buffalo on its bottom and said, "Patience, Paundraka! Can't you see this woman is crying?" Paundraka let out a little angry huff and went back to looking bored, while the fat man turned to the weeping woman."Why is mummy crying?" the little boy wondered. But before he could step out of the room to comfort his mother, the big blue man echoed his thoughts and asked her, "Why are your crying, Nandini?" He pinched his nose where his eyes met as he said this, trying very hard to not sound angry or tired.The woman, who was sitting on the couch with her head in her hands, looked up at the blue man with big, red eyes, which became bigger when she heard this question. "Why am I crying? Why am I crying?! I'm crying because you're here to take me away, just like you took away my husband. And then my little boy will be all alone, the poor thing. An orphan at the age of six. How dare you ask me why I'm crying!""Look Nandini," the blue man said, turning and twisting a rope he held in left hand, "first of all, I didn't come to take your husband, your husband came to me. Of his own will. And second, we've been at this for three hours now and I can't wait any longer. Your boy will be fine. So come. Stand up now. You shouldn't keep the gods waiting."As he saw his mother stand up from the couch, her shoulders slumped in resignation, the boy got scared and wanted to run to her, but couldn't. It was like he was frozen in place. The blue man swirled the lasso deftly in his right hand and threw it at at the boy's mother. When he yanked it out, it came out empty."What's this?!" the blue man cried. "Where's your soul?"The woman looked up at the man blankly and said , "My soul, Yama? Oh, that's with my little boy. I don't keep mine on me."The man slapped his forehead and said, "Well, I can't take your soul out of the little boy! What if I get the wrong one out? This has been an utter waste of my time." Paundrakha grunt-mooed in agreement."Come on, Paundrakha," the man said kicking the buffalo's stomach lightly. "We'll just have to come back another day." And then, without so much as a goodbye, the man and the buffalo vanished.Relieved for the moment, the woman wiped away her tears on her nightie's sleeve. She then went to the kitchen to get a drink of water when she noticed her little boy standing by his bedroom door, peeping at her through the shadows. The woman started at the sight of her son and almost dropped the glass of water in her hand.“Now what are you doing out of bed?” she asked. Without waiting for an answer, she put the glass down, chased the little boy back inside and tucked him in angrily, saying, “Honestly, Bharat. One of these days, you're going to be the death of me.”

In Miwa Forest, there livedMonkey who was always sad.Every time she had a baby, itdied. The pain of losing her babiesmade Monkey jump up anddown.She would jump to one branch,then to another, and cry out,"Kwi! Kwi! Kwi!" Monkey was always sad.She was sadder when she sawother monkey parents with theirbabies. The sad Monkey would sit on abranch and look up!Days passed and Monkey criedmore and more. Then she gave birth again.She decided to take the baby tothe path so that people passingby would see the baby and wishit well. Monkey climbed down from thebranch and put the baby on thepath.At that time, a hunter wasreturning home.He saw the baby monkey lyingon the side of the path. The hunter carried the babymonkey to his house.When the hunter reachedhome, his three boys wanted tohold the baby monkey. The three boys played singing:"Throw it up!Throw it down!Throw it to me!Throw it to him!"The baby monkey was thrownfrom one child to the other. As the three boys played withthe baby monkey, motherMonkey was hiding in a treewatching.She was afraid that this babywould also die like the others. Then the hunter's wife cameand saw her children playingwith the little monkey.She said, "Be careful! Bring ithere. You will drop it!" She took the baby monkey inher arms, and blessed it. The hunter's wife put the babymonkey down.Mother Monkey held her babyto her chest.She disappeared up the tree.She never lost another baby!

Once upon a time there was a Princess who lived in a palace near the forest . She loved to walk in the forest and gather the beautiful flowers growing in the forest. One day when she was walking in the forest she lost her way. It was dark and thick bushes and creepers grew all around. She was afraid and lookedaround for help. Suddenly she saw a lion looking at her from behind the bushes. She was frightened and screamed "Help Help " and started to run away. The Lion called out to her :"Princess, don't be afraid . I'm a veggy lion. I eat only grass and herbs. I will not hurt you. Please don't run away ". The Princess was surprised and walked up to the lion . "Oh gentle lion, I have lost my way in the forest . Will you help me return to the palace? " she asked . The Lion said, " Surely , dear Princess , I will bring my friend, the elephant, here.He will help us find the way . Please stay here ". He then brought the elephant . The elephant carried the princess on his back, through the woods and reached the palace."Thank you dear elephant ", said the Princess. Will you be my royal elephant from now on? "The elephant joyfully agreed. The Princess then asked the lion to stay in the palace with her . The lion also agreed .The lion and the elephant lived in a beautiful garden, near the palace , happily ever after.

There was a dark jungle. It was a big dark jungle.There were lots of trees and anarrow path.Many animals and birds livedhere. One day, all the animals came together."Did you hear?" asked Tota, the parrot."Yes," said Hirni, the deer."What?" asked Darpok, the rabbit."We have a school in the jungle," answeredZhoola, the monkey.Mota, the elephant wondered, "Hmph?"Lamboo, the giraffe said, "Oh, good!"Dheema, the snail squealed, "Hurry, let's go!" Tota, the parrot flew ahead.Zhoola, the monkey jumped from tree to tree.Poorakha, the python slithered fast."Here!" shouted Tota. "Can you read?""It is upside down, I think," said Zhoolahanging by the branch.Poorakha concluded, "Hisssss. No one canread." Soon, all the other friends joined them.Lamboo looked over the tree."No one here," he said.Zhoola repeated, "No one here."Tota proposed, "Look carefully!"Pilloo, the little bear declared, "I found aroom!" "I found a swing", announced Dheema."What are these blocks?" Darpok wanted toknow."What is this?" was Zhoola's question.Poorakha explained, "I believe, this is a pencil." Moto and Lamboo found a classroom.They called the others, "Look, what is this?"Everyone came with school bags.They began shouting, "Teacher! Teacher!Where is our teacher?"No one knew. Then they heard a roar.They heard a loud roar.They heard a louder roar.Poorakha was worried.Dheema was scared.Tota hid behind the board.Lamboo and Zhoola were puzzled. Who is this?"Hup!" said Zhoola the monkey.No one spoke.They all looked at the teacher.Up and down carefully.Then they looked at one another. The teacher turned to write on the black board."Jump," said Zhoola."Fly! said Tota.Thump, thump, thump ran Mota."Run, run run fast," screamed Dheema."Bhagoooo," they all shouted together.When the teacher turned...There was no one in the class.

Once upon a time there was a little elephant called Percy, who used to walk carelessly.He used to step on the ants that lived nearby and injure them endlessly. One-day ants decided to teach him a lesson. They all tickled Percy when he was taking a bath. They tickled Percy when he was eating food. They tickled Percy when he was taking a nap. They tickled and tickled Percy till he said sorry. Percy learned his lesson and never stepped on ants ever again.

I am Subaami. This is my mother- Swetha.My father's name is Sujan. My brother's name is Shreyas.All our names begin with S!Shreyas and I, made the picture on the wall. Today Amma has worn a saree that is just the colour of the sun in the picture.It looks so pretty with orange and red and yellow. Amma goes to office. She reads a lot. She makes very nice food.Hmmmmm...smells so good!I think she is making sweet corn curry. We have a pet cat.Her name also begins with S- Sweety. My grandma lives with us.She tells me stories, I read my story books to her.And her name? Sundaravalli. And S...yes, we are one sweet happy family!

Once there was a very hungry crocodile. He searched for food slowly and quietly. And then... POW!!! The crocodile strikes! After that he is no longer hungry, and he is happy. Until he gets hungry again.

Young children like toplay with Toys. I like skipping and swinging. Connie likes hide andseek. Some boys playfootball. Sam likes running. Some girls play net ball. Elsie likes to jump like a frog. Girls play with water. Nelly likes sliding. Children like to play wedding games. Keisha and Dona like toplay with dolls. What about you?

I come from a family of artistes. Not just artists but writers, musicians, dancers, sculptors, actors, chefs and designers. But no singers. I am sure they wonder what my gift is. I love to sing. But they don't know because I sing in private and so softly that no one can hear me.My name is Savitri which means Goddess Saraswati. I am 12 years old and I live in Kolkata.One Friday night, when I couldn't sleep, I began to hum. And my voice soared with a high pitched song. Suddenly, I heard a noise outside. Somebody was outside my room! I flung open the door. It was my grandma, Sarojini who I love a lot.She was muttering excitedly to herself. She saw me and immediately turned away and hobbled down the stairs. I realized she had been listening in while I was singing. I called out to her "Dida, wait! Where are you going?" But she had already gone.* * *The next morning I woke up late, it being a Saturday. I went downstairs to be greeted with radiant smiles. I smiled back and started eating breakfast slowly. Suddenly, my mother announced that we would be going out of town for two weeks. I was surprised since my parents are usually very strict about me going to school. I wondered whether this was about last night. I looked at my dida. Even though she stared straight ahead, her eyes gave her away. They were twinkling with joy and did I notice a small amount of guilt?I couldn't wait for our trip!!! At the train station, I figured out that we were headed to Bangalore. I would be exposed to Carnatic Music from my cousin, Sushma's music teacher, Mrs Ragini Iyer.I love Bangalore!! It has splendid weather.Tomorrow I begin my music classes!Class was excellent! We first spoke about ragas and then she taught me some basics. She taught me geethams and guided me on voice control and shared books and CDs that I could practice with. My parents and Dida were thrilled that I was to continue classes over Skype. My introductory course with Mrs. Iyer was so much fun.We are now at the airport waiting for a flight to Goa, the place where I would learn western music basics from Ms. Perry.I loved the course with Ms. Perry!!! She was so pleasant and I learned so many songs of different types. I even learned some yodeling!Now, we are on the flight back to Kolkata where I will be learning Rabindro Sangeet. These are songs written by Rabindranath Tagore.I also listened to Hindustani music, under Dida's guidance. She explained that it is the North Indian style of classical music. My days acquired a new routine over the next couple of months. I went to school, finished my homework and also practiced all my styles of singing. I enjoyed this a lot and grinned inwardly while singing.The sky looks beautiful from the terrace at my apartment. Day or Night. And the starry night sky seemed to smile back at me.A few months after our musical journey, my parents told me something that made me giddy with joy. Two somethings, actually.No. 1- I was shortlisted for Indian Idol!No. 2- I was going to have a baby sibling!The first round contestants had to mail a song recording and my parents had secretly recorded my singing and posted it!I was so excited that I had made it. My Dida said" Savitri, it doesn't matter if you win or lose. Just enjoy yourself and the music" Some months later I was in the final round of Indian Idol! I sang " Suraj Dooba Hai" and... WON!Right now I am in hospital, waiting. Amma gave birth yesterday!! I cannot wait to see my sibling!I have a brother! I chose the name Mohan for him. Maa says it means attractive or charming. And indeed he is.Plump cheeks and body and the most beautiful eyes ever. I cuddled him and sighed happily. I sing a lot to him. Sometimes softly when he needs to sleep .Could things get any better?

Illustrators: Sonal Goyal, Sumit SakhujaAsha was a very clever girl. She helped her mother in the kitchen and in the garden, looked after her younger brother and was always early to school.However she had one bad habit!She always chewed her pencils right up to the end.Her mother tried to correct her," Asha, it is wrong to chew pencils. You will spoil your health"But Asha loved the taste of the wood and the black lead inside. Chew..chew...chewHer father tried to break the habit, "Asha it is a bad habit . You will fall sick." But Asha continued to chew...chew..chew..Asha's parents went to school one day and told the teacher of her habit of chewing pencils.Mrs. Shanthi was a kind teacher and thought of a way to change Asha.The next day was the class picnic. Mrs. Shanthi took all the children to a pencil factory. The children were very happy to see the pencils in different colours!Red!Blue!Yellow!Green!The pencils were so pretty!Mrs. Shanthi then took them to a place in the pencil factory where there was a big pile of trees on the floor."Children, do you see these trees?""Yes Miss", they all shouted." This is where your pencils come from"The children were very surprised."Do pencils come from trees"? they asked."Yes" "Every pencil you buy or break represents a tree that has been cut to make new pencils"" The more pencils we use, the more trees we are destroying. One day we will not have any trees left"On the way back home in the bus, Asha was very quiet.Every tree she saw looked like hundreds of pencils in her mind!In a few days there was a big change in Asha. Can you guess what?Asha did not chew pencils anymore!

Once upon a time, Hen andEagle were friends. They livedin peace with all the other birds.None of them could fly. One day, there was famine inthe land. Eagle had to walk veryfar to find food. She came backvery tired."There must be an easier wayto travel!" said Eagle. After a good night's sleep, Henhad a brilliant idea. She begancollecting the fallen feathersfrom all their bird friends."Let's sew them together on topof our own feathers," she said."Perhaps that will make it easierto travel." Eagle was the only one in thevillage with a needle, so shestarted sewing first.She made herself a pair ofbeautiful wings and flew highabove Hen.Hen borrowed the needle butshe soon got tired of sewing.She left the needle on thecupboard and went into thekitchen to prepare food for herchildren. But the other birds had seenEagle flying away. They askedHen to lend them the needle tomake wings for themselves too.Soon there were birds flying allover the sky. When the last bird returned theborrowed needle, Hen was notthere. So her children took theneedle and started playing withit.When they got tired of thegame, they left the needle inthe sand. Later that afternoon, Eaglereturned. She asked for theneedle to fix some feathers thathad loosened on her journey.Hen looked on the cupboard.She looked in the kitchen. Shelooked in the yard. But theneedle was nowhere to befound. "Just give me a day," Henbegged Eagle. "Then you canfix your wing and fly away toget food again.""Just one more day," said Eagle."If you can't find the needle,you'll have to give me one ofyour chicks as payment." When Eagle came the next day,she found Hen scratching in thesand, but no needle.So Eagle flew down very fastand caught one of the chicks.She carried it away.Forever after that, wheneverEagle appears, she finds Henscratching in the sand for theneedle. As the shadow of Eagle's wingfalls on the ground, Hen warnsher chicks. "Get out of the bareand dry land."And they respond:"We are not fools. We will run."

Heeeee! There is abeautiful cow at home. It has no tail and onlyone horn.It looks so beautiful. It is fat, and has a bigstomach. It is the strongest cow. Its shepherd loves thiscow very much.He has taught this cowto listen only to hisvoice. When the herd go tothe fields to graze, thiscow eats alone. This cow is a greatfighter, so the othercows leave it alone. People know this cow.They are afraid of it,because it can fightwith its one horn.If you met such a cow,what would you do?

Rinku was a little girl who lived in a big house with her parents and baby sister.She looked out into the garden and thought how wonderful it would be if she had a dog as her pet and play with him in the garden every evening. "Mummy, please get me a small puppy", she asked her mother.Her mother said, "I'm sorry Rinku, it is very difficult to take care of a pup ." As soon as she got up in the morning she begged her father , "Daddy , please, please get me a pup. "Her father said " Sure Rinku, as soon as you grow a little older. "One evening on the way back from school , Rinku heard some noise in the bushes near her house.She ran towards the noise and found a little brown puppy under the bushes.Rinku was very excited.She carefully picked up the small furry bundle and carried it home.She kept it in a small box in the garden.This was her big secret. She named him Brownie .The next day she put her red ribbon around his neck and gave him a small stool to sit on.The puppy licked her face and she was overjoyed. After a few days, the puppy started making gentle noises . " Sshhhh," said Rinku , " don't make so much noise, mummy will hear you." The puppy grew bigger.Rinku gave him a bone, which he started to nibble and bite! One evening the puppy started running around in the garden.He was chasing a butterfly.Mummy saw the puppy and started to chase it away."Mummy, he is such a cute little puppy, please let me keep him," said Rinku." I will take care of him. Please, please say yes," she begged.After some time her mother felt sad for her and said," okay Rinku, you can keep the pup". "Thank you mummy," she laughed, happily dancing around her mother.The puppy grew bigger day by day, but it never barked.It could only make low growls and gentle noises.Her pet dog did not know how to bark.Rinku felt very sad.How could she teach him, Rinku wondered.She asked her friends for help. The next day Rinku's friends came home.They all stood near Brownie and made barking noises ." Woof woof", they said trying to teach Brownie to bark.But Brownie did not bark.Rinku felt very puzzled.Perhaps she should try a different sound, she thought.The next evening , Rinku sat near Brownie and tried to teach him"Bow Wow, Bow Wow. "She made the noise several times.Brownie cocked his ears and listened to her.He started making noises but that did not sound like a dog barking at all.Rinku was very very sad.How could she teach him to bark? Then, Rinku brought out her slate and sat near the dog .She wondered what she should draw to make him learn a " bow wow "!!!She only knew how to draw a train.The next day she saw a big white dog outside the garden gate barking loudly, "bow wow , bow wow ."And there were barking noises from inside the garden . "Bow wow " , "bow wow", she heard.She rushed to the garden and saw Brownie barking loudly , " bow wow," at the white dog outside.She jumped for joy and gave Brownie a tight hug.At last Brownie had learnt to bark!!!! That night , Rinku slept peacefully."BOW WOW, BOW WOW,"Thank you white dog for teaching Brownie to bark!

This is Agnes. She is my teacher. Agnes uses crutches to walk. This is Metobo. He is my favourite radio DJ. Metobo has problems with his eyes. This is Moraa, my neighbour. Moraa is a farmer. Moraa cannot hear. She speaks using Sign Language. This is Osero. He is the best soccer player at my school. Osero has no hands. But he scores many goals for our team!

This is Preetha Aunty. She teaches us Hindi.We began with the letters, now we have finished up till 'dda'. Preeta aunty tells us one or two words with the letters.Ka se Kamal, Ka se kalam, Ka se Kutta.Aunty drew the lotus and the pen. But she did not know how to draw the dog.So I drew it for her! It is my birthday, I am very happy.I got chocolates for all my friends and teachers. I gave a chocolate to Preetha Aunty.She told me "Dhanyawaad"I also said Dhanyawaad because I did not know how to say" Welcome" in Hindi.Do you?

Keke sat on her swing.She loved her swing.It was the best swing at herschool. Keke moved slowly on herswing.Backwards and forwards.Backwards and forwards.When Keke moved, her swingwent faster and faster.Soon she was right at the top. Keke looked down at theground.She was very high up."Aeei," she called, "Look howhigh I am!" She was happy to be so high.She could see the whole village.She was nearly as high as birdsflying over the cornfields. After a while Keke wanted tocome down.The swing would not stop."Oh, oh, oh," she called."I don't know how to stop thisswing!" The swing went on and on.Up and down, up and down.Keke was frightened."Where will this swing take me?I might go up to the moon.I must get off!" she cried. So Keke let go of the swing.She fell down, down, down. "Oh, oh, oh," cried the otherchildren.Keke fell to the ground.She hurt her head."Eeeeh, eeeeh, eeeh," shecried.The other children were veryworried. Keke did not know what to do."Eeeeh, eeeeh, eeeh," she criedagain.The children called theirteacher."Ma Mpho. Please come!" theycalled."Keke fell off the swing. She hashurt her head." Ma Mpho ran to the swing.She picked Keke up off theground. Ma Mpho kissed Keke's head.Keke smiled, "That's betternow.""I will not go on that swing bymyself again," she said."I never want to go to themoon." "Next time I will be with you onyour swing, Keke," said MaMpho."We can go to the moontogether!"

Once upon a time there was a tiger who live in a cave. He was the scariest tiger, when anybody will come, he will be so silent then when they come near him he will ROAR!!!!!!!! so loudly so the rocks of the cave fall down that the prey can't go anywhere. There were deers who came inside the tiger cave so the deers got scared and said HELP!!!!!!.Then after some time tiger got up and said WHY DID YOU COME HERE!!?. Then the deer said I've come here because my dad said to bring some water from the cave. The second animal of coming inside the cave is a lion he was handsome and friendly.When he saw the tiger he was happy because the lion and tiger were best friend.The lion said lets wait for one more animal. then the tiger said why?. Then the lion said we can play with them , oh ya said tiger. The third animal of coming inside the cave was a elephant , the elephant was happy because he saw the deers, tiger and lion then after sometime he said LETS DO PARTY!!!!then the deers , tiger, elephant and lion said OKAY!!!!!! They enjoyed party.

Near my house is a really big tree, I climb on it when I am free.I just go up and up to the top, When I reach I just hop.As soon as I climb, my mother says stop, Its time for lunch, now you hop.No mom no! it is time to shop!Then again in the market I shall climb and hop!!!!No No No!! No one is going to shop,Come on here, or I will pop!!!!

Long time ago Hare and Hyenawere great friends.They did many things together.They danced and sang together. One day, Hare said, "My friendHyena, let us start farming togetherand we will be rich.""Oh yes, we can plant a lot food,harvest it, and sell it to others,"Hyena said."But what shall we plant?" askedHare. Hyena suggested that it was goodto plant maize. Hare agreed.Hare also told Hyena that it wasgood for them to share duties onthe farm."My work will be guarding themaize from birds," said Hare.Then Hare told Hyena to till theland, plant, and weed. Hyena complained that he had beengiven more work. But Hare toldHyena that the work of chasingbirds was the most difficult andmost important."My work is not easy. I will beclimbing trees and chasing birdsaway day and night. And you arenot able to climb a tree," Hareexplained. Hyena was convinced by Hare'swords. He agreed to till the landalone. It was a lot of work. Hare didnot help at all.After tilling the land, Hyena plantedmaize in the whole field, alone. When weeds grew in the field,Hyena used a hoe to weed. It was alot of work.Hare sat on a rock singing:"My friend is a worker,I am his adviser.He works like a tractor,I am his manager.The soil he toils,The hills he tills,The seeds he plants,The weeds he cuts,The maize we harvest." When the maize was almost ready,Hare enjoyed himself singing in thefield to keep birds away. Chasingthe birds was not a hard job. He didnot sweat at all. Finally, the maize was ready toharvest. Hare told Hyena that theywould share the harvest betweenthemselves.Hare said, "I will harvest everythingthat grows above the soil and youwill harvest everything that growsbelow the soil."Hyena thought that it was a goodidea. Hare said, "I will first get myharvest then you will harvestyours."So Hare harvested all the maize inthe field and put it in his store. Hyena went to harvest things thatgrew below the soil. He dug, hopingto get a good harvest. But he onlyfound roots under the soil. He dugeverywhere. He did not findanything to harvest. Hyena realised that he had beencheated. He was angry. He returnedhome carrying empty baskets.In the evening he went to Hare'shome very annoyed. He told Hare,"Let us now farm together again myfriend." Hyena told Hare, "This time I willharvest everything that growsabove the ground and you willharvest everything that growsbelow the soil."Hare accepted. He told Hyena thatinstead of planting maize it wasgood to change the crop. Theyagreed to plant potatoes. Hyena also insisted that this timethey would both do the digging,planting and weeding. Hareaccepted. So they worked on thefarm together, singing. When the potatoes were ready,Hare told Hyena to harvest whatgrows above the ground.Hyena went looking for somethingto harvest. But he did not findanything. He only found potatoleaves. He went back home withempty baskets. Hare harvested a lot of bigpotatoes. He put them in his store.When Hyena saw Hare's harvest, hewas annoyed. "Why did you cheatme?" Hyena asked Hare.Hare explained that it was Hyenahimself who chose to harvest thethings that grew above the soil. Hyena was very angry. He chasedafter Hare in order to get revenge.But Hare ran away fast.Since that day, Hare and Hyenahave not been friends.

There was a man with his onedog. He loved his dog so much. It was hard working and it used to go to the market to buy meat. fetching water from the well. Guarding every thing at home. One day the man thanked his dog in a specialway for being faithful. The dog became so happy andit continued working hard.

I have a kite which is strong and has enough might,When I sail it up in the air it starts to fight with the other kites.My kite is big, cartoony and wide,When it wanders a bit, my father sets it right!When it rains at night,I think about if I could fly my kite!

Long, long time ago, there livedHare and Elephant.Hare was clever and cunning.Elephant was slow and vain. One day, Hare went to themarket and bought a pair ofbeautiful shoes made of iron.On his way home, Hare metElephant.Elephant liked Hare's shoes somuch that he asked Hare totake him to the place where hebought them. Hare said to Elephant, "Youshould get a better pair thanmine, that way you can showoff to the whole village andmake others jealous."Elephant was so excited.Hare and Elephant agreed tomeet the next day at Hare'shome. The following day, Elephantwent to Hare's house.Hare said to him, "Welcome myfriend, come in so we can getyou the best pair of shoes thatno one else has." Elephant was surprised andsaid, "Excuse me my friend, Ithought we were going to themarket to buy the shoes?"Hare answered and said,"Elephant, do you want theshoes or is it the market thatyou want to see?" Elephant calmed down andsaid, "Of course I want shoes.I did not sleep last nightbecause I was thinking of mynew shoes all the time."So Hare led Elephant to theback of the house where he hadlit a huge fire.Hare said to Elephant, "Stand inthe fire so that the shoes canstart forming." Because Elephant was eager tohave the shoes, he did as Haresaid.At first he did not mind the heatof the fire.Then Elephant's hooves beganto burn. He felt a lot of pain butbecause he wanted beautifulshoes, he did not move.As the pain increased, Elephantstarted to cry. Hare said to Elephant, "Stopcrying otherwise the shoes willbe ugly."Elephant quietened down alittle but the pain increased.While tears rolled downElephant's face, Hare secretlylaughed and said, "Stop cryingif you want the shoes." When the pain was too much toput up with, Elephant jumpedout of the fire.Unfortunately, his hooves hadalready burned so he could notwalk.He lay down roaring with pain. Hare went close to Elephant'sear and whispered,"You were so close to havingthe most beautiful pair ofshoes, but now you cannot havethem." It was many months beforeElephant could stand upbecause his hooves were sobadly burnt.They were flat.When he managed to walk, hewas limping. He limped all the way to hishome where his wife andchildren were waiting for him intears.To this day, Elephant still limpsand his hooves are flat.

Hi I'm D-56.I was a Techdroid at that factory over there. Part of my job was to inspect the solar-panel array that powers the factory.One day, I found that a whole bunch of them had been knocked down, and nearly destroyed, by a couple of Crocobots, who were lying lazily in the middle of the array like they owned the place!I'm Crunk. My friends and me were having a peaceful nap on that riverbank after a busy night of scavenging up and down the river for junk parts.Suddenly this crazyfactory droid started shouting and screaming at us! We thought the little fellow was really funny and burst out laughing. This made him really mad and he startedtossing rocks at us! I threw one tiny pebble at them and they jumped up and started chasing me! I tried to get away but they were too fast, and caught hold of me in no time. I was terrified and pleaded with them to let me go.They said they wouldn't recycle me if I gave them our service-droid to do some maintenance work on their king but if not, they would recycle me for throwing stones at them!He promised to give our king his Service-Droid if we let him go, so, we let him go with a warning that if he didn't keep his promise, we would dismantle him and recycle his parts. I am called Slinky I am the central computer at this factory. D-56 told me that he had been forced to agree to give our factory's one and only Service-Droid to some crocobot king!Who were these crocobots? I looked them up in my data banks...They appeared to be standard bots. Why did they need our service droid!She wouldn't be able to repair themwithout the right spares or tools.Then it occurred to me that they probably wanted to tear her to bits and take what parts they could use!How horrible!I would not allow it!I refused to send her off to these horrible crocobots. Slinky convinced us to forget about the crocobots and continue with our factory work but,a few days later sector-III was completely destroyed in a fire!My name is Z3R0 my friends call me ZERO.After yesterday's disaster, Slinky sent me to sector-5, but this time that sector had to be closed down because a highly infectious virus had infected its systems.Slinky decided that the crocobots must be behind all this, because, I hadn't been given to them! Slinky made me go meet the crocobots and ask them if we could give them 30 brand new battery-packs instead of our precious Zero .They refused, and warned me that unless we kept our side of the agreement, they would cause even worse problems! The next day that service droid of theirs fell down and smashed her right tool array!We had nothing to do with it, but their computer thought that it was our doing!She sent that fellow D56 to tell us that they did not want any more problems and were finally ready to hand over their service-droid.Ha! Ha! We didn't have anything to do with it!We did set fire to a section of their factory, and one of us did sneak in and plant a computer virus, but we didn't do any thing to the service droid!Looks like it was just our good luck that it happened! Slinky and D56 had just helped my fix myself when a couple of crocobots came to the factory with boxes of tools and machine parts to retrofit onto me.They behaved with the utmost politeness and carried out all their modification procedures with surprising precision. After the modifications were done, they started off towards the river.I went along to keep Zero company for as long as I was allowed.When we reached the river one of them gave me a small tin box and said that if I ever wanted to see Zero again I should use what was in it.Then they all jumped in dragging poor zero along with them. It had been 3 months since we lost our service droid and I was missing her a lot.D56 showed me the box the crocobots had given him, inside was some kind of chip that seemed to be made for plugging into one of his slots.After we plugged it in he jumped up and said that he knew where to find Zero and was off at top speed towards the river!With the factory's telescopic camera's I saw him jump into the water!I thought that this would be the end of him, that chip must have had some horrible virus from those horrible crocobots! It must have driven him mad! Finally, after almost 3 days, D56 returned to the factory.Surprisingly he didn't have a speck of rust on him in fact he was actually shinier than usual,reminded me of when Zero used to be around,everything used to be spotless and clean.He was all excited about something and begged me to get into my mobile unit and go with him into the river!Seemed to me that his circuits had been damaged by river the water. It took a while but eventually I convinced slinky to come with me to the river, I had to tell her that I had found another factory close to ours that had some new systems that she should look at.She started to get into her mobile unit and while she wasn't looking I plugged in a chip that I had with me.As soon as I got into my mobile unit I suddenly felt this urge to go somewhere and D56 seemed to know where I wanted to go.We jumped into the river and I found that I wasn't getting wet because there was an energy shield protecting me!I ran a system check, and found a chip that was a lot like the one the crocobots had given to D56! It was telling me where to go and seemed to point me in the same direction that D56 was taking me. So I went along. The chips generated energy shields around our bodies that kept the water out!As soon as we landed on theriverbed we started in thedirection the chips told us to go and soon we were in the ocean that the river flowed into.I couldn't wait to show slinky what I had found!After a few more minutes we reached a magnificent underwater structure, with transparent domes, and shining, glittering plasteel walls.Next to it were a group of huge hydro-fans in the middle of a garden of energy cells . When we reached the airlock, Slinky asked me what this factory was doing at the bottom of the ocean?I laughed and told her that it wasn't a factory it was a city, and it belonged to the crocobots!Wow! Such a big city! Poor Zero must have so much work to do!These horrible crocobots must be forcing her to work day and night! Suddenly I saw a group of huge amphibious droids swimming down towards us.For their size they seemed to move surprisingly fast.As they got closer I saw that they were not moving on the ocean floor like we where.They were swimming!They were swimming fast!I thought they must be some kind of amphibious droid troopers because they were swimming in formation with the leader in front! When they reached us at the airlock, they stopped and landed in front of us.I rushed forward and cried,”O general! Help me! I'm a poor Factory computer whose Service-droid, was carried off by thedreadful King of the Crocobots!” It had been a busy day and I had just finished teaching some of the crocobots how to fix a power pack when there was a beep from the airlock telling me that the king and his survey team had returned and were standing outside.I went and opened the airlock. Suddenly the airlock opened and out stepped Zero! I was overjoyed to see her and told her that I had just asked these fine droid troopers to help release her from the clutches of the terrible crocobots.They all started laughing! D56, Zero and the troopers!Suddenly the leader of the droid troopers made a strange beeping sound and startedshifting and adjusting his armor plates, . . . . . . and then he turned into a crocobot!“I am the king of the crocobots!” I said to the factory computer.“Your service-droid is a good, efficient droid, and you will find that we have been kind to her.”I then explained to her that after years of haphazard retrofitting and other modifications; using old droid parts; we crocobots were now mostly droid and only became crocobots when we walked on land, but in water we changed into our droid selves and lived in this underwater city of croco-droids! D56 and Slinky moved into the underwater city with the croco-bot-droids and Zero,and they all lived happily ever after.THE END.

A long time ago, there lived a mancalled Mulongo and his wifeNambuya. They had two children,Mukhwana and Namono. There wasa famine in the land where theylived. All the villagers, includingMulongo and his family, would leavetheir homes early to look for food inthe forest. One day, Mulongo, his wife andchildren decided to go deep in theforest in search of something to eat.From morning to evening theylooked for food but they foundnothing. Nambuya urged herhusband to go further into theforest. Mulongo led the way asNambuya and the two childrenfollowed. Suddenly Mulongo saw a beautifulbanana plantation. He called hiswife and said, "Is that not a bananaplantation? I can see bananas andother food crops. I wonder whose itis." They moved on and soon saw ahouse in the middle of theplantation. They stopped, looked inall directions, but there was no onearound. Because they were hungryand it was nearly night time, theydecided to sit and wait for theowner. Suddenly they heard heavybreathing close to the house. Theywere frightened to see a huge ogrearrive. "Who are you and what doyou want?" asked the ogre in afearful voice. Mulongo in atrembling voice said, "We camelooking for food because there isfamine in our place." The ogre gavethem food. For several days the ogre allowedMulongo and his family to eat hiscrops without asking for anything inreturn. One morning, however, theogre said to Nambuya, "I want youto cook your son for me to eat whenI come back this evening." Whenthe ogre had gone Mulongo wentinto the bush and killed some smallanimals, which he asked his wife tocook for the ogre. Meanwhile heasked Mukhwana to climb up a leafymango tree and hide. In the evening the ogre returnedand asked, "Have you cookedMukhwana for me?" Mulongo's wifeanswered, "Yes." She gave the ogrethe meat and he greedily ateeverything. Then he said,"Tomorrow you cook yourdaughter." The following morning Mulongo andhis wife did as they had done on thefirst day. Namono was hidden upthe mango tree. When the ogrereturned he said, "Did you cookNamono?" Again, Nambuya told theogre that she had done so. After eating, the ogre instructedNambuya to cook her husbandMulongo, the next day. Nambuyawas perturbed but Mulongo said hewould go out again and catch someanimals to cook. He did that andafter giving the meat to his wife, healso climbed up the mango tree tohide. At dusk the ogre came back.Nambuya gave the meat to theogre who enjoyed it very much. Hetold Nambuya, "Tomorrow cookyourself." When the ogre had leftNambuya called her husband toadvise her. Mulongo said, "Go andlook for some small animals andcook them for the ogre. Wheneverything is ready, come up thetree where we are." The ogre came back in theafternoon and started eating histasty evening meal of sweet meat.He felt sleepy, went to lie under themango tree and began snoring. Butnot so long after, the ogre woke upbecause he heard noises abovehim. The ogre looked up to the treeand saw Mulongo and his wife andchildren. The ogre was very angry. "So youdeceived me? Let me come and getyou," he shouted.As the ogre was struggling to climbup the tree, Mulongo quicklythought of a trick and said, "It willbe easier for you to reach us if youtie a rope around your neck and wehelp to pull you up." The ogre ran into the house,brought a strong rope and aftertying it around his neck he threwthe other end of the rope toMulongo. Mulongo and his wife andchildren started pulling the ogre upas they twisted the rope. The ropesoon tightened around the ogre'sneck until he could not breathe anddied. Mulongo and his family camedown the tree and took over theogre's house and property.

There was once a cat that pooped stories.She would sit up on a tree without any worries,Settle down after slurping on curry,And poop stories, without any hurry.No, it wasn't the work of elves or fairies;Just a cat that could poop stories! "My cat doesn't always eat just fish!"Explained Aaron to his surprised Miss."Margaret Mallikarjun Chulli-cat?She's not one to just laze on a mat...She finds storybooks, treats them as a dish;Then? EAT, SLEEP, and PUBLISH!" "I tried it once with a Jack Russell Terrier;Made him eat some William Shakespeare...Oh, what a complete and utter disaster,It just came out a lot smellier!Margaret Mallikarjun Chulli-cat, there's no one to beat herWhen it comes to stories right out of her derriere." "I even tried it with a monkey next door...(Or was it that annoying boy in Grade Four?)Well, none of it worked, I can tell you that much,And not a single story was pooped as such!It just went nuts, ate everything in the kitchen,Margaret? Could poop stories even as a kitten!" "So you see Miss, it is a very important matter,That I have to carry this very long ladder.My beloved Margaret Mallikarjun Chulli-cat,I've to bring her down from where she's sat...When she has published after a long session,I have to use the ladder, in the interest of our nation!" "What does that have to do with this sum?"Devidutta-Miss went pale like a dimsum.She wasn't angry, just petrified...Quite simply, she was TERRIFIED!"Thank you for being such a hero,But in maths you'll score a zero!"

Flamingoes Vulture Sunbird Hornbill Indian Roller Bulbul Weaver Bird Sparrow

Once upon a time, there livedtwo sisters called Nelima andNambuya. Their parents weredead. They lived on bare land.There was neither rain norcrops to eat. Whoever wantedfood had to go a long distanceto find any. Nelima was a humble, quiet andhelpful girl. Her sister Nambuyawas proud and she would notlisten to advice. She did notcare about other people. One day, the two sisters wokeup in the morning and foundthat they had nothing to eat.They had to look for food. SoNelima and Nambuya went offin different directions. Meanwhile, there lived an oldwoman called Netasile. She wasbelieved to be a giver of riches.Netasile had leprosy and herbody was full of sores. Nambuya came across this oldwoman, who called her, "Mydaughter, how are you? Wheredo you come from? Where areyou going?" Nambuya answered all thequestions. Then the old womansaid, "Come carry me to myhouse and I will tell you what todo." Nambuya was rude to thewoman. She said, "I wouldrather die than touch thosedisgusting sores of yours." The old woman kept quiet andwished her a safe journey. Nambuya walked until shereached a strange place. Aplace where there weremillipedes, snakes, caterpillarsand many other insects.Nambuya was very tired andweak because she had noteaten anything. When she satdown to rest, these creaturespreyed on her. On her journey, Nelima came tothe same woman. She washappy to see Netasile, beingthe first person she met sincestarting her journey. The oldwoman called her and askedthe same questions. Nelima agreed to carry Netasileto her house. "You have donewhat many have failed to do,"said the old woman. She gaveNelima a stick and told her togo back home, where she wouldfind everything she wanted. Nelima was very grateful andthanked the old woman and ranback home. She found a newhouse with everything in it, anda lot of food. She became therichest woman in the land. But she mourned for the loss ofher sister and she said, "Onewho did not listen to adviceended up in an elephant'smouth."

Once there were some children.They lived on at the edge of a city. They lived near a huge garbage dump.The garbage dump was very big. It stretched as far as you could see. The children did not go to school. They ran around in the dump all day.Some collected plastic bottles. Some others sorted out pieces of cloth.All of them knew many things about the garbage. One day, Didi came to the dump. She had a red dupatta.Didi looked at the children running around. Then she looked for a place to sit. She opened her bag and took out something. The children were curious. They moved a bit closer.Didi had lots of colourful books. The books had stories inside them.The children moved closer and closer. Didi started coming every day. The children stopped roaming in the dump when she came. They sat with her and listened to the stories.Soon they could read some letters and some words.Before long they were reading stories too. The children decided to make Didi's place look good.Someone brought a chair from the dump.Someone else found a piece of carpet.Some brought some curtains.Soon Didi's place looked good. One day Didi did not come. The next day too Didi did not come.The children waited and waited.They read the books by themselves.And they read the books to each other. One day the children found Didi's address in a book.They set off to look for her. They carried a bag of books. The children could read the bus name. They looked for her road number.They could do all this because Didi had taught them. The children looked for her house. They looked up and down each lane. But they could not find it.Just as they were coming back, someone saw a red dupatta.It was hanging on a hook near the window. There was Didi lying in bed.She looked very sick. Her eyes were sad and she did not smile.The doctor had given her medicines. But somehow she was not getting better. The children ran to Didi. They hugged her and they kissed her. They brought her books to her.Didi sat up and the children read to her.Her eyes began to shine and her smile came back. Now Didi comes every day again. And the children do too.You can see them every evening. You can hear them laughing.You can hear them reading. You can tell they are having so much fun.The children, their Didi and the books.

Long, long ago there were sevensuns in the sky.Their rays made the earth so hotthat human beings could not bearit. So, the seven brothers belonging toa tribe called the Munda decided tokill the suns.They shot arrows at them and wereable to kill six of the suns. The seventh sun hid behind a hill. Now, with the suns gone, there wasdarkness everywhere.The deer could not see the tigers,the elephants bumped into trees,the rabbits walked over the lionsand there was confusion all around. To find a way out, the animalsdecided to have a meeting.A rabbit told them about one of theseven suns who was still alive andhiding behind a hill.But who would be the best one tocall out to the sun? "I will call out to the sun," said thelion, for he was the king of theforest."Sun, sun, please do not run awayfrom us. Come back in and shine onus," roared the lion.But the sun did not listen to him. The elephant called out next.He raised his trunk and trumpeted,"Sun, sun, please come back," butthe sun did not listen to him. The beautiful peacock danced andpleaded, "Sun, sun, please comeback," but the sun refused to comeout.One after the other, all the animalscalled out to the sun, but he did notlisten to any of them.Finally, a rooster offered to call thesun. Everybody laughed. The lionwas a fair leader. He said, "Therooster should be allowed to try." The rooster stepped forward andgently crowed, "Kookoodokoo koo."To everyone's surprise, the sunpeeped out a little from behind thehill. The rooster crowed again, this time a little boldly,"KookoodoKOO-KOO..."The sun came up a little higher. The rooster crowedfor the third time. This time it was louder and bolder,"KOOKOODOKOO-KOO..." and the sun rose high andbright.There was light everywhere.The animals were delighted and the humans feltrelieved. The animals asked the humanbeings not to kill the sun and theyagreed.Ever since that day, when therooster crows in the morning, thesun rises and shines in the sky.

I am smelly, I am dirty!I never feel guilty!I cause a lot of pain and acid rain,stopping me you will have a strain!I cause malaria in your area,Causing dengue is fun because it makes you run!Sea animals die and soon you will cry,Save your planet, save your earth,or more diseases soon will take birth

Pensa was the best hunter in the whole Kalahari Desert. He brought home fat animals and fed his family well.There was this bird, the Pam-Pam bird, which Pensa wanted to catch. The bird's tail feathers were perfect for his arrows. The problem was, he could never manage to trap or shoot Pam-Pam.Pensa's arrows would fly through the air just like a bird - if only he could catch Pam-Pam and pull out his tail feathers! Pensa went to the wise man, their healer. He asked for help. "Please guide me to catch the Pam-Pam bird. I need his feathers for my bow and arrows. What must do to catch him?"The healer replied, "Go and make a fire. When all the insects run away from your fire, you must catch the smallest of them. Make a trap and place this little insect inside your trap. It will tempt the Pam-Pam bird." Pensa did not know that the healer and the Pam-Pam bird were friends. Pam-Pam often visited the healer. They exchanged stories. "I warn you," said the healer when Pam-Pam bird visited him, "I have told the hunter how to catch you. When you see a fire in the veld, you must fly far away. I want to see which one of you will win." In the meantime, Pensa started his hunt for the Pam-Pam bird. He sat in the veld and rubbed and rubbed his fire sticks. When the smoke appeared, he blew into the fine grass around his fire sticks, until the little flame appeared and became a fire.The insects around the flaming grass flew away, but Pensa managed to catch a young grasshopper. He put it into his trap. The Pam-Pam bird could not resist the juicy young grasshopper in Pensa's trap. He decided to fly down and grab it quickly with his sharp beak.Pensa heard Pam-Pam bird's cry, "Pam-pam, pam-pam, pam-pam."Pensa ran to his trap. The bird was trapped! Pam-Pam bird begged Pensa to set him free. "Oh no," said Pensa, "I have wanted to catch you for a very long time. Today you are mine! Your feathers will make my arrow fly through the air, just like you." Pam-Pam bird screeched, "If you kill me you will have no more feathers for your arrow when these are worn out, because I will be dead. Set me free and I promise to give you new feathers with each full moon." Pensa let Pam-Pam go. As Pam-Pam walked away, he thought, "Am I really free?" Pensa went home and made new arrows. When the people saw his new arrows, they exclaimed: "O-o, look at this hunter! He carries the Pam-Pam bird's feathers in his arrows. Now he will hunt well and bring us good food. We shall have a feast!" That night, the healer led the people in a fire dance to celebrate the hunter's success and Pam-Pam bird's freedom.And since that day, all the good hunters remember the story of the Pam-Pam bird, to tell their children as a memory of days gone by.

Long, long ago, the Sky God,Nyame, kept all stories locked in awooden box, high in the sky.People down on earth had nostories to tell and they were verysad.They asked Anansi the clever Spiderto help them. Anansi spun a long thread, andclimbed up his sticky thread all theway to heaven."Can I have the stories, please?" heasked the Sky God.But Nyame laughed at Anansi andsaid, "Oh, these are very expensivestories. You wouldn't be able to payfor them, little spider." "How much do the stories cost?"asked Anansi."You'll have to bring me three rareand fierce animals," Nyameanswered, "A leopard with sharpteeth like spears, a hornet thatstings people, and a snake thatswallows people whole."He laughed and laughed. Hethought his stories were quite safe. So Anansi climbed slowly backdown his sticky thread to the earth.He thought and he thought, and hecame up with a plan.He dug a deep hole, covered it withbranches and dirt so it was hidden,and he went home for supper. In themorning, sure enough, a leopardhad fallen into his pit. He wasfuriously scratching at the side ofthe pit, but he couldn't get out. "Oh let me help you, my dearfriend!" said Anansi. "Just lie downon these sticks and I'll pull you out."Anansi wound his sticky web roundthe leopard and the sticks, andpulled him up to heaven to showthe Sky God.But Nyame just laughed and said,"Where are the other two?" So Anansi went back down to earthto get the second creature. Hethought and he thought and hecame up with a plan.He took a gourd full of water andwent to the tree where the hornetslived. He poured out some of thewater all over their nest. Then hecut a leaf from a banana tree andheld it over his head, and he pouredthe rest of the water all overhimself. He called out to the hornets, "Heyhornets! Come see! It is raining!Quick - get inside my gourd and itwill keep all of you dry."Hornets don't like to get wet, sothey all flew into Anansi's gourd. Then Anansi quickly spun a webacross the opening so the hornetscouldn't get out no matter howmuch they buzzed.He carried them up to heaven andshowed them to the Sky God.But Nyame just said, "Where's thelast one?" (He wasn't laughing somuch anymore.) So Anansi went down to earthagain. He thought and thought andhe thought, but he couldn't comeup with a plan. So he asked his wife,who had a very good idea.Together they found a good longthick branch and some strong vines.When they got near the streamwhere the snake lived, they beganto argue."The branch is longer!""No, it isn't!""Yes it is!" Soon the snake came out and askedwhat the argument was."I was arguing with my wife," saidAnansi. "She says this stick islonger than you are. But I don'tagree.""Of course I'm longer than thatstick!" said the snake."I'm very long! I'm a huge snake!Just put your stick next to me andmeasure!" So Anansi did that, and he tied thesnake to the stick with his vine tokeep him straight.When he was all tied up, Anansitook the snake up to heaven. Nyame had to admit that Anansihad paid his price. So he went to hiswooden box, opened the lid, andgave all the stories to Anansi.Anansi carried the storiestriumphantly down to earth.He shared them with his wife, andwith all the other animals andpeople.Stories are for telling, not forkeeping in wooden boxes.

Do not waste food, please be humble,Look at the beggar children, with no food, their tummy must rumble!The children on the street, dream about the food that you do not eat.The food that you throw away, could give someone a happiness ray!

Hyena and Raven were once greatfriends, even though they werequite different in some ways.Raven could fly but Hyena was onlyable to walk. One day Hyena, curious to knowsomething about his friend, askedRaven, "What is this white thingwhich is always below your neck?"Raven answered, "It is the fatty meat which I usually eat in the sky.I have been eating it for so long now it is stuck on my neck."On hearing about meat, saliva started pouring out of Hyena'smouth for he was greedy and he loved meat very much.Hyena really wanted to eat that meat. But how could he reach themeat in the sky if he had no wings to fly?"Please my friend," he asked Raven, "lend me some feathers sothat I can make myself some wings. I really want to be able to flylike you." Raven was not mean, so he gavehim some feathers.Hyena sewed them together intowings. He fastened them to hisbody, and tried to take off into thesky.But he was far too heavy for thefew feathers to carry him.So he had to think of another plan. "Please my friend," he asked Raven,"could I hold onto your tail as youfly up into the sky?""All right," said Raven. "I know howmuch you want to fly. Let's do ittomorrow morning."When day came, Hyena took hold ofRaven's tail and Raven flew up intothe sky. Raven flew and flew and flew untilhe was exhausted. But Hyena said,"Just a little further, my friend!"He could see the white and fattymeat just above them, and hismouth was watering. When they reached the first piece of fatty meat, Hyena felt a jerk.One of Raven's tail feathers came off in his hand! Then there wasanother jerk, and another. Raven felt much lighter, and the ache inhis tail was going.He sang:Raven's feathers, unpluck yourselves. Raven's feathers, unpluckyourselves.In response, Hyena sang the opposite:Raven's feathers hold on, don't unpluck yourselves. Raven'sfeathers hold on, don't unpluck yourselves. Finally, the feathers could not holdHyena anymore. He was in themiddle of nowhere in the sky.He jumped onto the fatty meatthinking that as he ate, the fattymeat would hold him. But as hetried to hold and eat the 'meat', allhe felt was moist cloud! By now he was falling fast. "Help,help!" he shouted.But no one could hear him. Ravenwas lost in the clouds. Hyena fell on the ground with acrash and lay silent for someminutes.He woke up howling in pain, with abroken leg and dark scars all overhis body. From that day to now, Hyena limpsand he has many scars on his body.He has never been able to fly.And he and Raven are no longerfriends.

Who are you?I am a turtle.What's makes you special?I have the shiniest shell, of all the turtles in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the turtles, I'm the best! Who are you?I am a cheetah.What makes you special?I run the fastest, of all the cheetahs in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the cheetahs, I'm the best! Who are you?I am a whale.What makes you special?I have the biggest tummy, of all the whales in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the whales, I'm the best! Who are you?I am a canary.What makes you special?I have the sweetest voice, of all the canaries in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the canaries, I'm the best! Who are you?I am an elephant.What makes you special?I have the brightest memory, of all the elephants in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the elephants, I'm the best! Who are you?I am a frog.What makes you special?I hop the highest, of all the frogs in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the frogs, I'm the best! Who are you?I am a bee.What makes you special?I make the yummiest honey, of all the bees in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the bees, I'm the best! Who are you?I am a dinosaur.What makes you special?I have the sharpest spikes, of all the dinosaurs in the world!North, South, East, West,Of all the dinosaurs I'm the best! Who are you?I am a boy.What makes you special?I am ME. There is only one ME in the world!North, South, East, West,I DON'T have to be better than the rest!

Every weekday morning Jaggee's alarm clock rings at 5 o'clock and every weekday morning he tries to ignore it. "I do not like mornings!" groans Jaggee. But Jaggee has school. He hides under the blankets and pretends that it isn't really morning. He complains. He says nasty things about mornings. "Most of the days I fall back to sleep for a few minutes!", Jaggee says. When his mother wakes him up, Jaggee pretends as if he is fast asleep. Jaggee says, "Even when she yells, I act like I never hear it." After a short time he realizes that he has to get up. Jaggee sighs. "Finally, I struggle out of bed and I start my day", says the young boy. But the minute he pulls through his morning routine and enters school, everything changes. He is a different person! School is where his home is. His friends welcome him shouting his name. He loves his teachers and awaits his favourite subject- Math. After school, Jaggee plays happily with his neighbours. At night, as he goes to bed, he secretly wishes that the next day, he goes to school directly and does not have to wake up in the morning.

Aunt Merane gave some money toJoe. Go to the shop. Buy sugarand bread. Joe picked an old carTyre.He ran fast with to theshop. Before reaching theshop,he saw the ball.He forgot the tyre.He picked the ball andkicked it. He saw a flying bird.He wanted to catch it. He saw the cows.He stopped and startedsinging to them. "Where is Joe? AskedJessica""He is just late but he iscoming." Aunt Meranesaid. Uncle Don sat withbaby Tara.He wanted to havebreakfast before goingfor work. Joe saw a puppy. He ranwith it around thefields. He got tired.He sat down andchecked his pocket.The money was notthere. He ran home withoutsugar and bread. "Joe, Where is sugar and bread?Where is the money?''Asked Aunt Merane. Am very sorry Aunt Merane.I played too much and lost the money.

Fruits, fruits, fruits. Fruit is sweet to eat. People eat differenttypes of fruits. One may eat mangoes, another may eat pineapples. We also enjoy oranges. Children enjoy apples. Birds enjoy corn. Oh fruits are good forhealth.People, animals andbirds like fruits somuch.

Dinner time is fun for Roma. She does many things on her plate Ma gives her rice. Roma makes a hill from it. White hill with steam coming from the top. Roma pours dal on her rice. She thinks it makes a small yellow lake. She laughs when she dips a spoon in her yellow lake There is a green forest on her plate. There are leaves. Some are big and some are small. She likes some. But she does not like some. She likes a vegetable that looks like a tree. It has a round top like a mango tree. The 'tree vegetable' also has a stock. It is almost white in colour Roma thinks it looks like a happy tree. Do you know what is Roma's happy tree? We call it cauliflower. Roma likes it very much. I love it too. What about you?

Bittu and Kittu are friends. Bittu called Kittu to play. Kittu ran. Bittu also ran with her. Kittu stopped. She took something from her pocket. Bittu saw her holding it near her mouth. She started blowing it. It was a small ball. The ball was pink. It was becoming big. Bittu started laughing. Kittu's cheeks puffed up. She was blowing. The ball was becoming bigger. It looked like a balloon. It looked like a big balloon. Balloon grew very big. Then it popped. Kittu laughed. Bittu also laughed. Blowing balloons was fun.

In a country called Gabon, a littlevillage stood at the very edge of aforest. In the heart of this forest, inthe highest branches of anenormous tree, lived a very specialbird − the bird that made rain. For as far back as the villagerscould remember, they had takenthe time to keep this bird happy.They saved scraps of bread, piecesof fruit and fresh coconut milk, andevery week or two a group ofvillagers took these delicacies intothe forest. When they had laid themat the base of the tree, one of themplayed a simple tune on the thumbpiano. After a while, the bird flew down tothe ground to eat and drink. Whenshe had finished, she began to singthe most beautiful song.At the same time, she raised herdark, shiny blue wings, and withinminutes, the rain began to fall. This went on for many years.Because the rain fell regularly, thecrops grew abundantly and therewas plenty of food in the village.But gradually things began tochange. Somehow, the villagerswere always busy and they beganto neglect the rain bird. "It will rainanyway," they said. "It's time tostop spoiling that silly old bird!" But the people were wrong. Whenthey stopped looking after the bird,the rain stopped falling.The crops began to dry up and die,and the animals grew thin andweak. Still, nobody in the villagewent into the forest to feed the birdthat brought the rain. Now theywere all too busy trying to findmoney to buy food in theneighbouring town. One scorching day, a young girl called Ketti decided to go into theforest after school. "At least it will be cool in there," she thought toherself. She walked and walked, and after some time, she came tothe tall tree in which the rain bird lived. Ketti stared up at the tree.Suddenly, she remembered how her granny had taken her into theforest to feed the bird when she was still a tiny child. Ketti openedher school bag and pulled out a piece of bread left over from herlunch. Carefully she laid the bread at the base of the tree. Then,because she had no thumb piano with her, she sang an old songthat she had known all her life. With a loud whooshing sound, abeautiful blue bird swooped out ofthe branches above Ketti's headand began to eat the bread. Whenthe bird had finished, she openedher mouth and sang a few pure,high notes.Then she raised her shiny wingsand all of a sudden Ketti heard therumble of thunder. By the time shereached her home, giant rain dropswere pelting down, cooling thebaking red earth. Ketti was very happy, until she told her parents what hadhappened. "Don't be silly!" scolded her mother. "Nobody believesthat bird has anything to do with the rain anymore!""Your mother is right," said Ketti's father. "The drought has beenbroken now and we will be fine. Don't go wasting good breadfeeding that greedy old bird again!"Though Ketti didn't argue with her parents, she felt sure they werewrong. "If only Granny were still alive," she said to herself, "shewould have believed me!" But Ketti's granny had died a few yearsearlier. The only thing Ketti had left, was her granny's old thumbpiano. Two weeks passed and there was nomore rain. The crops began toshrivel up again and the hungryanimals' ribs began to stick outeven more. The sun beat downmercilessly from a glaring blue sky."I don't care what they say!"thought Ketti. "We need rain. I'mgoing to feed the bird againtomorrow!" So, early the next morning, aftertaking a slice of bread and ahandful of red berries from thekitchen, Ketti slipped out of thehouse. She began to make her wayto the centre of the forest.What she didn't realise, was thather father was also awake. When hesaw what his daughter was doing,he realised that she was going tofeed the rain bird again. "I'll teach that disobedient child a lesson!" he said to himselfangrily. He snatched his bow and arrows and silently followed Kettiinto the forest.Just as the bird flew down to eat the food that Ketti had set out forit, her father raised his bow and released his deadly arrow. Thearrow flew straight into the bird's heart. The bird let out a piercingshriek.Terrified, Ketti spun around − just in time to see her father falldown, stone dead. Ketti screamed and turned around − just intime to see the arrow fall harmlessly from the bird's glossy body.Then the bird, unharmed, swooped up into the highest branch ofthe tree. Ketti raced out of the forest to ascene of utter devastation. Everyanimal and every person she sawlay dead on the ground. With apounding heart, she ran all the wayback to her home.She quickly found her granny's oldthumb piano. "This is my onlyhope!" she thought. "The rain bird isangry. I have to make her happyagain! I HAVE to!" Half an hour later, Ketti was back atthe base of the big tree. Her bodywas drenched with sweat and shewas gasping for breath. A few pacesaway from her lay the lifeless bodyof her father.Ketti looked away quickly, and withtrembling hands, began to play thethumb piano.She played and played, until herfingers hurt. Finally, what she wanted most inthe world happened. Down swoopedthe bird as if nothing had happened.The bird ate some of the berries stilllying on the ground and sang a fewnotes. Then, as Ketti played on, thebird raised her wings. Ketti heard arustle behind her. It was her father who had wokenup."I'm sorry!" he said again and againto the big, blue bird.Then he held out his hand to hisdaughter and they walked slowlyback to the village. In the village allthe people and animals were aliveagain. That night the villagers held ameeting. They all agreed that theyhad learned a valuable lesson. Andfrom that day onwards, not oneweek passed without a special tripto the forest to feed the bird thatbrought the rain.

It was a rainy Sunday evening. My mom did not let me go outside. I was told to do my homework. I sat sadly and wondered about my boring life. Get up in the morning, do your homework, go to your classes, eat food and sleep! Nothing was exciting or new. Then abruptly the bell rang. I went to see who it was. It was dad as expected. I went to the store room to find something fun. And you know what!!! I found a broken robot! with my dad's help, I fixed the robot. at first this robot was no use. But then I named it as Tracey Roger. Roger played with me all day. Sometimes Roger even did my homework. He did all my work. But once Roger was going to the market to buy my brother a gift for his birthday and he slipped on the stairs. My hard work was again wasted! I saw how all pieces again fell apart. I ran to my parents' room but they were not inside. My brother was hosting his birthday party and my grandma was free. Wait a minute! My grandma was free!!! I took a long breadth and approached her. I asked her to help me. She just sat and gave me a dead stare. She then abruptly agreed and then we started off! After 15 attempts, finally we did it! I thanked her for helping me. And then Roger again became my best friend. Trrrr trrrr!!!!!!! My alarm rang. I woke up and realised this was a dream! Oh! What was I thinking! Whatever it was I wish it was reality and from now on I will always do my homework on my own!

Ant looked at the littleplants and pebblesaround him. "I am big!"he said. "No, Ant. You are notbig," said Squirrel. "I ambig!" "No, Squirrel. You arenot big," said Cat. "I ambig!" "No, Cat. You are notbig," said Hyena, "I ambig!" "No, Hyena. You are notbig," said Rhinoceros, "Iam big!" "No, Rhinoceros. Youare not big," saidElephant, "I am big!" Then Elephant lookedup at the sky. The skywas full of stars. Thesky was big and wideforever in everydirection. "No, I am notbig, either! All of us aresmall!"

In the village of Bagnebaghursiddim, there lives a girl named Tiya. She has a pet named Tofu. You will be thinking he is a dog or a cat, but no it is an elephant. She really loves it and her happiness is in Tofu's happiness. Tofu was very good at running and was faster than everyone in Bagnebaghursiddim. Faster than Mr. Kamparrot, Mr. Deergo and even faster than Mr. Sherkhan. One day , there was a running competition held in Badarsikhwaserdem. Tofu asked Tiya if he can participate in the competition and as expected she allowed. They both set of early in the morning. As they reached Badarsikhwaserdem , Tofu started practising hard. Tiya encouraged him and told him to take rest. Tomorrow was a big day for Tofu. They felt very tired. Tofu ate a hearty breakfast and set off with Tiya. When they reached the place where the tournament was held, Tofu saw that the elephants participating were much bigger than him. He got very frightened and told Tiya he would quit the contest. Tiya told him that 'Tofu respect is very important and, if you quit the contest you will loose respect. But, if you stand and try your best you will gain respect not loose it '. Tofu then , tried his best in the competition and won the race. Tofu then realized that trying is better than being scared.

Once upon a time there lived a cat and a rat. The cat ranafter the rat. The rat hid under the stone. The cat looked for the rat and the cat saw a dog! The dogran after the cat. The cat hid in the bush. The dog looked for the cat and the dog saw a big, big lion.The lion chased the dog. The dog ran in the bush. The lion looked for the dog. Then the lion saw a big toughelephant. The elephant chased the lion. The lion ran into thebush. The end of the story

Crickets chirp. Mice squeak. Snakes hiss. Dogs bark. Goats bleat. Cows moo. Lions roar... ...and snails make nosound at all. Babies babble... ...and children talk.

Once there was a boy named Nadir. He lived in Adyar, Chennai. He was very adventurous and he was a very lively boy. One day he wanted a pet so he asked his parents but they refused. So one day he was playing with his friends and he found a helpless horse and he took it home. Nadir named it Faraz. They both had many adventures together. He bought designer clothes for Faraz.Faraz loved to wear them. The shawl was made from golden threads. The borders were made up of golden lining. The dress for Faraz did not cost anything because Nadir's mother was a tailor who could stitch very good.But one day evil had fallen on them. The next night turned out to be Amavasya(night with no moon). A group of thieves arrived to Nadir's place and stole Faraz. The next morning Nadir woke up and found the ugly surprise that was waiting for him. He went to the police station and filed a FIR in no time. They located Faraz in eight months. The address was Vettuvankeni 139 East Coast Road. The drive was of 25 minutes. When they reached there they saw that the thieves were going to cut Faraz but the police took hold of the situation and saved Faraz. Nadir thanked them a lot and never ever kept Faraz out of his home.Moral: Never treat animals differently treat them like humans.

This is Ramu. He was eating some sweets and few pieces fell down. After sometime he saw a big black line. He goes closer to see what it was and finds they were ants coming in a line to eat the sweet. Each ant carries a piece of sweet on its back. They all stuck together to carry the sweet. Ramu once again saw the ants going back home in a line. The ants had a big feast that night. See how the ants shared their food with each other.Do you also share your food with others?

One day Little Dog wasplaying with a ball. He saw a cat.He said, "Hello, LittleCat. Can I play withyou?"Little Cat said,"I will play with you.Can I play with yourball?" "Yes," said Little Dog."It is a red ball. I willkick it to you and youcan hit it back to me." So the two little friendsbegan to play.Little Dog said, "I like toplay with you. It is fun.You are a good friend." The big red ball wentover the wall. Little Catbegan to cry."We do not have a ballto play with." "I like to play with thebig red ball," said LittleCat.Little Cat began to cryand cry. "I will get the ball," saidLittle Dog and hejumped over the wall. Soon he was back withthe ball.Little Cat was happythat it was back.The two friends playedand played. Little Dog said, "Cometo my house and let uslook at a picture book."In the picture book,they saw a little dogplay ball with a littlecat!

I am a body of water. I am long. I go from here to there.There is a riddle about me.Read what I can do.Can you guess who I am? I am big. I am bigger than a stream. I have lot of water. My water is used for drinking.They say I always run. I never walk.My water moves from here to there. They say I flow. I have a mouth. But I never eat. I can't even talk. You hear the sound when I flow.I move soil and small rocks. I help move logs of wood.I do so much work but I don't have hands. I have a bed. But I don't sleep. I am always awake.I am always moving.I make soil. I make valleys.My water is sweet. Let me tell you again. I have no legs but I can run.I can't eat or talk but I have a mouth.I have a long bed but I never sleep.I have a bank but there is no money in it. Did you guess who am I? A river! I am a river.Do you know some names I have?

Ajao, a bat, lay in his house very ill.There was no one to attend to him. Then, Ajao died. The neighbours said, "Ajao is dead. We must call his relations to come and bury him." The neighbours went and called the birds saying, "A relative of yours is dead." The birds came and saw that it was Ajao.They said, "This animal is not part of our family." "All our family have feathers but Ajao has none. So, he is not one of us."The birds went away. The neighbours reasoned together. They agreed, "The birds are right. Ajao has no feathers. So, he is not their relative." One of them said, "He must be part of the family of rats. He looks like them." The neighbours went and called the rats saying, "One of your family is dead." The rats came and saw that it was Ajao.They said, "This animal is not part of our family." "Everyone in our family has a tail. Ajao has no tail."The rats went away. No relations were found for Ajao and he remained unburied.

Mama is filling a redbucket. Abongile is playing witha red truck. Deon is holding redflowers. Aunty is wearing a redjersey. There is a red sunabove Grandpa. There is a red scooterparked in the street. A red lizard is onBabalwa's lap. A red fire engine is atthe fire station. Here is Sibahle wearinga red top. She is trying on redboots. They don't fit!

Once there was a bee whose name was Stripey. Stripey did not know how to make honey. He thought that bees get readymade honey from somewhere or find it inside something but didn't know where. So Stripey started looking for it inside a twig, he broke it but found sap inside, that didn't taste wee bit like honey. Then he tore a paper, popped a balloon, peeled open an orange but no honey came out. Stripey thought that maybe bees only give out honey. So he did all kind of bee dance, all kind of movements he had never done before. But that didn't work either. So he went to the Bee bookstore and searched for books which tell how to make honey. He searched and searched and luckily found a magic book that tells you how to make honey. He bought that book, took it home and started reading it. He read the ingredients first. This is how you make honey. So Stripey read.Things you'll need:Nectar from flowersBee saliva and most important of allHard workGo to a flower which has nectar, suck the nectar with your long tongue, put it in the honey stomach ( a stomach where you store honey), out of bee saliva make the cells of the bee hive, then throw up the honey into the cells and seal it with the wax. Finally , Stripey could make honey on his own. He no more had to go to Bee restaurant to have his honey breakfast, lunch and supper. Stripey was overjoyed that he could make his own food, his own honey.THE END

In a village not far away, Prakruti stayed with her Ajji. They loved the forest, the birds and the animals. Everyday after lunch, they would put the leftover food out for the birds to eat.Kalia the crow would come down to eat it everyday. Then he would happily fly away.Scavenger that he was, he told Ajji & Prakruti “You make me very happy. I will get you 7 items. Tell me what do you want? “ On Monday, Ajji said she would like some Red color for her Kumkum. Then Prakruti & Ajji could do Puja. So Kalia flew high in search of something Red. He asked the hibiscus flowers to share some of their Red color.They all asked, ” Dear Kalia why do u need Red? You are black in color”So Kalia said ” It's not for me, it's for my Ajji. She wants to make some Kumkum”So they gave some Red color and Ajji made Kumkum. On Tuesday, Ajji asked for some Orange color to make some yummy Sambar (curry). Prakruti loved to eat Sambar & rice. So Kalia flew high in search of something Orange. He asked the Orange fruits to share some of their Orange color.They all asked “Dear Kalia why do you need Orange? You are black in color.”So Kalia said, “It's not for me, It's for my Ajji. She wants to make some yummy Sambar” and so they gave some Orange colour and Ajji made Sambar. On Wednesday, Ajji asked for some Yellow color to make Haldi. Haldi with milk applied to Prakruti would make her glow. So Kalia flew high in search of something Yellow . He asked the mangoes to share some of their Yellow color.They all asked, ” Dear Kalia why do u need Yellow? You are black in color”So Kalia said ” It's not for me, it's for my Ajji. She wants to make some Haldi” So they gave some Yellow color and Ajji made Haldi. On Thursday Ajji asked for some Green color to make a Green Zari Sari to wear to a wedding . So Kalia flew high in search of something Green. He asked the hills & the parrots to share some of their Green color.They all asked, ” Dear Kalia why do u need Green? You are black in color”So Kalia said ” It's not for me, it's for my Ajji. She wants to make a Green Zari Sari” So they gave some Green color and Ajji weaved a beautiful Green sari. On Friday, Ajji asked for some Blue color to make a pavadai for Prakruti. So Kalia flew high in search of something Blue. He asked the Blue skies to share some of their blue color.They all asked, ” Dear Kalia why do u need Blue? You are black in color”So Kalia said ” It's not for me, it's for my Ajji. She wants to make a Blue pavadai” So they gave some Blue color and Ajji stitched a Blue Pavadai for Prakruti to wear. On Saturday, Ajji asked for some Indigo color to make some ink. Prakruti could then write lovely poems about her Ajji. So Kalia flew high in search of something Indigo. He asked the Indigo butterfly to share some of her Indigo color.She asked, ” Dear Kalia why do u need Indigo? You are black in color”So Kalia said ” It's not for me, it's for my Ajji. She wants to make some ink” So she gave some Indigo color and Ajji made ink for Prakruti to write with. On Sunday, Ajji asked for some Voilet color. Diwali was coming soon and voilet walls would look amazing. So Kalia flew high in search of something Voilet . He asked the Brinjals to share some of their Voilet color.They asked, ” Dear Kalia why do u need Voilet? You are black in color”So Kalia said ” It's not for me, it's for my Ajji. She wants to paint walls with it” So they gave some Voilet color and Ajji and Prakruti painted their walls Voilet. By now Ajji and Prakruti were very happy with the colorful array around them. But Kaalia was very sad. He said ”I am black in color. I would also love to have so many colors in my life. Can u make something for me too?”So Ajji took all the seven colors and painted a beautiful rainbow high up in the sky for Kalia to admire.

Everytime I finish my hot, hotbath.My wet body feels so cool, coolcool.What makes that happen?Vayu, the wind! The milk in my cup - too hot,too hot.But soon it is ready for me togulp.Who makes that happen?Vayu, the wind! The window curtains flutter andgently brush my face.Who makes it happen?Vayu, the wind! A bolt of lightning far away.Black clouds moving my way.Who makes that happen?Vayu, the wind! Branches sway and leavestremble.Flowers gently fall.Who did it all?Vayu, the wind! Far from the house, we areplaying, yet, I can smell thesweets mother is preparing.Who makes it happen?Vayu, the wind! A glass tumbler on a windowsill,crashes on the ground.I am glad I was not around.Who played this mischief?Of course, it was Vayu, thewind! A whistle blows. A train rolls in.I cannot see, but hear its din.Who makes that happen?Vayu, the wind! Cannot be seen.Cannot be heard.Does all the work without aword.Who can it be?Of course!The wind!

Prakruti loved reading stories with Ajji, while Golu, their cat, slept at their feet. "Ajji, tell me a story about me!" she squealed. So Ajji began, "Prakruti or Prakriti means Nature"."Nature? What does that mean?", asked Prakruti."Look outside", said Ajji. Prakruti is the leaves on the ground,the birds on the trees. Prakruti is the rolling hillsand the breeze.. Prakruti is the rain, the thunderand cold.. Prakruti is the summer, yellowand gold.. Prakruti is the mango tree in ourcourtyard.. Prakruti is the flower in ourfrontyard.. Prakruti is the snow on themountain tops .. Prakruti is the desert wheresand is lots.. Prakruti is a sapling basking in thesunlight.. Prakruti is the silver lining in themoonlight.. Prakruti is the nature within ushelpful, loving and full of joy.. "And this is the story about Prakruti, I hope you enjoy",ended Ajji."Oh! I love this story Ajji. I love this story about me very much!"

We are in Cape Town onholiday. We are excitedbecause Mom and Dadare taking us to thepark next to the sea. Look at the tall slide.Am I brave enough toclimb up and slidedown? My sister and I want toplay on the see saw. Iwonder which one of usis heaviest? Mom and Dad need topush us when we wantto swing. I am going totry to swing thehighest. Look at these whitehorses. They arestatues. We read the sign whichshows us what fun wecan have with thehorses. We visit the lighthouse.Mom and Dad say it isvery old. Lighthouses areimportant at night andin the fog. They alertships to the rocks in thesea. We have had a happytime at the park, butnow it is home time. Weare going to catch abus. Thank you Mom andDad for our treat. Weare tired but veryhappy!

Once upon a time, there lived a farmer. He never liked birds as he believed that they will ruin his crop. The farmer always used to stone the birds at sight But the farmer's only son, Sanju was quite opposite to him. He loved birds and would feed them. Farmer used to scold Sanju for this but Sanju never stopped feeding the birds. One day, while going to school, Sanju slipped and fell off. He was injured and could not walk for long. No one was around him to help. A bird saw Sanju and understood that Sanju was having trouble. The bird remembered Sanju helping him. So he also decided to help Sanju. The bird went back to farmer's house and started making a big noise. This irritated the farmer. So the farmer started chasing the bird until he found Sanju lying on the ground helpless. Farmer at once took Sanju to hospital. Sanju then explained everything to his father. Father felt ashamed for his rude behavior. Thereafter he too started liking animals and birds.

Kabali and Kateera are friends. Kabali has a cat. Kateera has a rabbit. Kabali plays with his cat every day. Kateera feeds his rabbit twice a day. Kateera's rabbit produced six babies. Two rabbits were black.Two rabbits were brown. Two rabbits were white. Kabali's cat produced three babies. One kitten was male. Twokittens were female. Kateera sold three of the baby rabbits. He used the money tobuy books and pencils to use at school. Kabali did not sell any kittens. The people in the village didnot want cats.

Once upon a time,Elephant and Hare werevery good friends.They shared a large herdof camels, cattle, and sheep. They grazed their animalsin the valley of Kingilo.Sometimes they tookthe animals to the hills,where there was plentyof grass and water. As the animals grazed,Hare and Elephant playedgames.They enjoyed playingfootball very much. Every time they played,Elephant would scoremore goals than Hare.This upset Hare very much. One day Hare asked Elephant,"What makes you so good?"Elephant quickly answered,"My big legs." The next day,Hare suggested thatthey run a race.Elephant agreed andthey started their race. Hare won all the races.Elephant was upsetbecause he had neverbeen defeated.So he asked Hare,"What makes you agood runner?"Hare answered,"My thin legs." Without a second thought,Elephant asked whathe could do to makehis legs thin.Hare said, "It is simple,I will show you with fire." Hare said, "Put your legsin the fire."Elephant stepped intothe fire. He shouted,"I am burning! I amburning!" Hare was happy.He encouraged Elephantto hold on, because burninghis legs was the only waythey could become thin. Elephant's legs hurt very badly,so he crawled out of the fire.He could not stand with hisburned legs, so he lay down. Elephant sat for manydays before he couldstand on his legs. Eventually, he was ableto limp home to his family. Hare and Elephant areno longer friends.

There was once a girl calledMulongo who lived with herparents near the village ofBudongo.One day Mulongo's mother senther to fetch water at the well. On the way, she met herfriends. They were going to theforest to get firewood. Mulongowanted to go with them."Please wait for me under thismuvule tree!" she said, "I haveto fetch water for my mother."But her friends didn't want towait. "All right, I'll catch up with youin the forest!" said Mulongo.She ran off to fetch water andtake it to her mother.Then she went to the forest tolook for her friends. She followed a path that led toa stream.On the other side of the streamwere many tiny paths each one,leading in a different direction."Which path had her friendstaken?" she wondered. She chose the biggest path, andwalked and walked, but shecould not find her friends.She was so tired that when shesat under a tree to rest, she fellfast asleep. When Mulongo woke up, it wasdark. In the darkness, yelloweyes were gleaming. She wassurrounded by hyenas!She was too terrified even tocry out. She tried running, butthe hyenas circled her hungrily. "Don't move," said the gruffvoice of the biggest hyena."If you run, we'll eat you!""Please let me go home!"Mulongo pleaded. But instead the hyenas tookMulongo to their house in theforest. It was a dirty hut full ofbones and buzzing flies.She lay down and pretended togo to sleep. In the darkness, she heard thehyenas talking to each other."How is the fire doing?" onehyena asked. "Is the waterboiling?""Everything is ready," was thereply. "Should I bring her?""Yes, yes!" growled the otherhyenas. "We're hungry!"They were ready to dragMulongo out of the hut. But the big hyena spoke,"Hyenas, wait. Remember therule of the village. No hyenamay eat alone. We have toinvite the whole family to sharea meal.""I'll go and call the in-laws,"said his wife."I'll go and fetch my cousins,"said the small hyena."I'll fetch our brothers andsisters," said another."And I will remain here with ourfood," said the big hyena. The big hyena sat in thedoorway of the hut and theothers went off in differentdirections.They took a long time, and thebig hyena began to doze infront of the warm fire. Soon hewas snoring.This was Mulongo's chance! Buthow was she going to get pastthe hyena? He was so big hefilled the whole doorway. There was only one way.She took a flying leap right overthe hyena's back, and ran asfast as her legs could carry her. Just then the other hyenasreturned, and saw what hadhappened. They ran after her,howling with anger anddisappointment.But it was too late. As she came to her village, oneof the villagers recognised herand shouted, "Mulongo,Mulongo is coming, Mulongo iscoming."Her father and mother ran outto meet her. They hugged her,while thanking God for savingtheir child, "Mulongo, Mulongo,we thought you had died!" From that day, Mulongo and the other children never again went back to theforest alone.

This is Chinnu. He is 5 years old. Chinnu loves to eat chocolates. Chocolates for breakfast. Chocolates for lunch. Chocolates for dinner. Yum! Amma would try to coax him to eat other food. But he only wanted chocolates. Amma even hid them on the top of the cupboard. But Chinnu found them. He even gave some to the dog. When Amma gave him rice & vegetables to eat, he screamed for chocolate. This made Amma very angry with Chinnu. "How can anyone grow without eating vegetables?", she said. Vegetables are your friends. Friends? How can vegetables be my friends? he thought. That night Chinnu dreamt about all the vegetables. Tomato, Carrot, Potato, Cabbage, Radish, Capsicum, Beans & Ladies Finger. Chinnu dreamt that all his friends had turned into vegetables and followed him to school. Vaibhav was a potato. Joshua was a carrot . Jeshur was a TOMATO!!! TRRRRRRING!! Rang the alarm clock. It was time for school. Chinnu was very scared of the dream. He asked God not to turn his friends into vegetables. He promised to start eating vegetables again. All the way to school, Chinnu was very scared. Did his friends really turn into carrots & beans? Maybe a potato or a tomato. Oh Dear! But Vaibhav was the same. Joshua was the same and thankfully, Jeshur looked like himself too. Phew! Chinnu was very happy. That night when Appa called Chinnu for dinner, Chinnu suddenly said, "Amma, give me vegetables. I now LOVE vegetables" Amma was very happy to hear this. Oh! Come, I will make you lots of yummy food. Carrot Sabji, Potato fries, Beans Sambar. From that day, Chinnu loved all vegetables.

Long ago, there was no night inOpio's village.People slept when they were tiredand worked when they were awake. One day Opio went out hunting withhis dogs. After a short time, hisdogs started to chase an antelope.Opio followed them. He ran formany hours.Every time he became tired, herested. Then he would run again.But he could not find his dogs. After many days, he came to avillage. He went to one of thehouses and said to the owner, "Ihave chased an antelope for a longtime and I am very tired. I want torest."The man said, "Sit down and rest.Would you like some beer?"Opio was very thirsty so he dranksome. Then he went to sleep. When he woke up, he couldn't see.He opened and closed his eyesmany times."You have given me something verybad to drink," he said to the man. "Ican't see properly anymore!""There is nothing wrong with you,"the man replied. "It's night now.Haven't you ever seen night? Whenthe day leaves, the night comes." Opio asked many questions aboutthe night. He began to like it verymuch.He and his new friend talked untilmorning.He stayed for another day so thathe could see the night come again. The next morning he asked hisfriend,"How can I take the night to myown village? I want my people tosee the night.""When it starts to get dark thisevening, walk to your village. If youlook straight in front, the night willfollow you. But you must not lookback. If you look back, the night willgo away." Opio did as he was told. Thatevening, he began to walk towardshis village.He felt the dark night behind him ashe walked.He wanted to look back.But he did not. When he came to his village, thevillagers were afraid."What disease have you brought tous, Opio?" they asked. "What is thisdark thing following you?"Opio said, "My friends, this darkthing is called night. Now you areafraid and I was afraid, too." "But you will learn to like the night.When the light comes we can workand when night comes, we canrest." And that is how night came to Opio's village.

There were two girls called Sara and Zara they were twins. They both longed for a merry -go -round because they didn't have one at home. Merry-go-rounds were lots of fun and enjoyable. The next day when they were going to school Zara saw something. She went closer to it. She realised that it was a poster she called Sara and they looked at it. It said there would be a circus with a playground. The girls thought there was a merry go round so they decided to go to the circus. After a few days they went to the circus. They hunted in the playground but there was no merry-go-round. Zara decided to give up and so did Sara. They were very sad. The twins were very sad. Their older sister tried to cheer them up. She dressed up in funny clothes, she made ugly faces and she made hilarious jokes. Nothing worked so she gave up. The twins began to get bored so they went to the local park. All of a sudden they froze. They saw something they really wanted............. A merry-go-round!!!! However happy they were they couldn't control their excitement. They had a lot of fun. And in their point of view It Was The BEST DAY EVER!!!!:)

This story is about two friends, Tjenga and Ngu. They understood each other, played together, hunted together and shared their food. Tjenga left his family and went to stay with Ngu's family. Early one morning Tjenga left to hunt in the bush. After searching for some time, the young hunter found the footprint of an antelope on the ground. It belonged to an eland, the most beautiful of all antelopes.Quietly, he followed the eland's footprints. Careful not to step on any dry, noisy grass, he walked, crawled and crept all day long until he finally found the eland. It was grazing on a hill. Quietly, Tjenga set his arrow in the bow and pulled until the string was tight and ready. He aimed at the eland's heart.Tjenga released the poison arrow and it flew through the air. The arrow hit the eland's heart. Tjenga was afraid because he had shot the beautiful eland. He lay down silently in the bush, resting and waiting for the poison arrow to do its work. The sky and the air around Tjenga shivered from the midday heat while the hunter waited for the eland to die.Suddenly, the eland turned into a person. Tjenga's heart was even more afraid, for he did not mean to kill a person. What would the people say if they found that he had killed a person?Tjenga walked to his friend Ngu, to tell him what had happened.When he found his friend and told him the news, he said, "I am in big trouble. I hunted an eland and after I shot it, it became a person. Please, you must help me now so that I can bury it before the people see what I have done."Ngu said, "Oh no! You are not my own family. I cannot make your problem my problem!"With a sore heart, the young hunter returned to his own people. Tjenga told them his story. Without saying much, his father said, "Come, let us go and have a look." When the family got to the hunting ground where Tjenga had shot the eland, they did not find a dead person there. The father said, "Did you lie to me?" "No," said the boy, "I told you about my hunt and the eland man just as I saw it."His mother said, "You did not kill a person. This is meat, it is an animal and we must eat it because we are hungry. We need its skin to make clothes. That is why you shot the eland. From now on you must understand that people are people and animals are animals." Tjenga's family made more fire. They danced all night and celebrated the food that the hunter had brought home.Tjenga's father said to him, "Now you have learnt a great lesson. You cannot leave your own people and adopt another. When you are in serious trouble, it is your own people who will help you and not your friends."

A long time ago, three girls wentout to collect wood. It was a hot day so they went downto the river to swim.They played and splashed andswam in the water. Suddenly they realised that it waslate.They hurried back to the village. When they were nearly home,Nozibele put her hand to her neck.She had forgotten her necklace!"Please come back with me!" shebegged her friends.But her friends said it was too late. So Anna went back to the riveralone.She found her necklace and hurriedhome.But she got lost in the dark. In the distance she saw lightcoming from a hut.She hurried towards it and knockedat the door. To her surprise, a dog opened thedoor and said, "What do you want?""I'm lost and I need a place tosleep," said Anna."Come in, or I'll bite you!" said thedog.So Anna went in. Then the dog said, "Cook for me!""But I've never cooked for a dogbefore," she answered."Cook, or I'll bite you!" said the dog.So Anna cooked some food for thedog. Then the dog said, "Make the bedfor me!"Anna answered, "I've never made abed for a dog.""Make the bed, or I'll bite you!" thedog said.So Anna made the bed. Every day she had to cook andsweep and wash for the dog.Then one day the dog said, "Anna,today I have to visit some friends.Sweep the house, cook the food andwash my things before I comeback." As soon as the dog had gone, Annatook three hairs from her head.She put one hair under the bed, onebehind the door, and one in thefenced area in the village.Then she ran home as fast as shecould. When the dog came back, he lookedfor Anna."Anna, where are you?" he shouted."I'm here, under the bed," said thefirst hair."I'm here, behind the door," said thesecond hair."I'm here, in the fenced area," saidthe third hair. Then the dog knew that Anna hadtricked him.So he ran and ran all the way to thevillage.But Anna's brothers were waitingthere with big sticks.The dog turned and ran away andhas never been seen since.

Aloke was a cheerful boy. He had a smile always that would make anyone around him happy. Even in the saddest moments he would cheer up thinking the bad phase would be over soon.One night post dinner, after saying a goodbye to the smiling moon, in his sleep he had a dream that there was a dinosaur who was very cheerful and enjoyed being in the bright sun as much as he did in the rain. Aloke too felt he was close to nature and happy as the dino. When Aloke woke up in the morning he couldn't remember the rest of the dream but it was cloudy dark weather outside. His mom who was making breakfast asked Aloke to get ready and reach school before it rains. He asked her, " Ma can I get wet in the rains after school?" His mom replied hesitatingly " Er.. yes but not for too long."Once school was over he rushed back home. After a quick snack and change of dress, he was waiting excitedly for the clouds to shower rains. It hadn't rained since morning as though the sky was waiting for Aloke. Suddenly it started drizzling. He could hear his mom saying in a loud voice, " Aloke don't be out there in the rains for too long." But as soon as he closed his eyes he could see once again the happy dinosaur's face." Aloke just enjoyed the moment. For others who were seeing Aloke getting drenched in the rain, it was a sight worth capturing in a painting or a photograph.Aloke was just happy and there was a little frog too imitating what Aloke was doing. Only those who wanted to be happy could see Aloke's happiness too.Interestingly the little frog like Aloke was enjoying the nature, the smell of mother earth and the rains with both hands towards the sky.

My mother planted.She planted a smallgarden.She planted a smallgarden of peas. My father planted.He planted a smallgarden.He planted a smallgarden of flowers. My mother weeded inboth gardens. My father watered inboth gardens. My parents and Iworked in the smallgardens.My sister and Iharvested the flowersand peas. The small garden ofpeas yielded sacks ofpeas.The small garden offlowers yielded sacks offlowers. My mother planted.She planted a largegarden.The large garden sheplanted was of peas. My father planted.He planted a largegarden.The large garden heplanted was of flowers.

Hello everybody my name is Tammy the turtle, in this story I go through many trials to find my mother. It all began on one sunny afternoon, I was resting on marina beach . Mama said she would be away only for a few minutes but 5 hours have passed by since she left, just at that moment i felt a chill run run down my spine as i saw my sister being carried away by a large bird. After an hour or so I decided to search for mama. I had to go deep in the sea to look for mama. I crawled to the shallow part and began my journey. I was afraid at first but then slowly began to think that it was really fun. On the way i met an angelfish. hello, what is your name? have you seen my mother?hello my name is misty and I'm sorry but I haven't seen your mother , but I'm sure you will find her.If you don't mind , could you please accompany me to my school of fish. My name is marina and I would love to accompany you. THANK YOU!!!!!!!!! marina. That's no problem , now come along. We soon reached the school of fish and I dropped of misty. I stopped to rest for some time and soon continued my journey. on the way I fell back on a light coral which pushed me towards a sharp one , in the process i wounded my leg and I started to bleed. then a mermaid papered out of nowhere , without me saying a word she took out one of her pearly fins and covered my wound with, and without me noticing soon disappeared. The magic fin had stopped the bleeding and had healed the wound . I decided to take a cat nap . after about 10 minutes I thought I heard my mothers voice, at first I thought I was dreaming but when i opened my eyes i was surprised to see my mother right in front of me. She then said , " My dear daughter you have gone through so many trials to find me , now i know how much you love me"

One day, Hare was out looking for food. He met Elephant, who had a pot of honey. Hare asked Elephant, "Please be kind and carry me. I am weak." Elephant agreed to carry Hare. Hare got onto Elephant's back and held on tightly. He started eating Elephant's honey straight away! Honey began dripping on Elephant's back. When Elephant asked what it was, Hare said that it was from his wound. They reached a river and found a large buffalo drinking water. Hare wanted to know who was stronger, Buffalo or Elephant. They began arguing. Elephant said she was stronger and Buffalo said she was stronger. Hare said he had an idea how to find out who was stronger. He asked them to wait for him there. Hare came back with a long rope. He tied the one end around Elephant's waist and led her away from the river. Hare tied the other end of the rope around Buffalo's waist and left her near the river. Hare ran and hid himself in a tree. He shouted, "Ready! One, two, three! Pull!" Buffalo and Elephant pulled. Elephant pulled Buffalo. Buffalo pulled Elephant. Neither could win. From where he was hiding, Hare continued to eat Elephant's honey. After he had finished the honey, he cut the rope closer to Buffalo. Elephant fell over hard and hit a tree. Hare went to Buffalo and praised her, saying that she was stronger.

Tina was a naughty but adventurous girl . She liked to play tricks. Every afternoon, she finds a way to sneak out of her house and go to the forest to explore. She ends up going to the hills instead. One such day, Tina's grandfather was not there to stop her from going to the forest, so she went in. Suddenly, she spots an animal who is half elephant and half bird. Meanwhile, in the village, Tina's mother told her grandfather that she could not find Tina. So her grandfather set out in search of Tina. In the forest, Tina was being chased by the crazy animal. She ran out of the forest, hurt badly. She ended up getting scoldings from her father. Her father told her not to go to the forest. Tina really wanted to go to the forest. So when the village prayers were going on, she would sneak into the forest to go and play with her new friend. Tina's grandfather knew everything, so he held a meeting to stop Tina from the crazy animal. So when she was sleeping, the villagers went to the forest to kill the animal. In the village, Tina cold hear the sound of the animal crying. So she went to the forest to save her friend. She saw her friend in trouble and she asked the villagers to stop hitting the animal. The villagers told her that it had caused harm to her. But Tina replied that the animal was her friend. The villagers believed Tina and so hey went back to the village happily. As for the animal, it went to the little house Tina had built for it. Tina was allowed to see the crazy animal from that day.

Esther is a good girl. She has manyfriends from school and aroundhome. When Esther goes to play withfriends, she picks Mummy's sweetsand gives to friends. She picks thesweets when Mummy does notknow. Mummy sees the sweets are fewbut keeps quiet. Esther's friendscome home while shouting:"Esther give us more sweets". That iswhen Mummy knows that Esthertakes her sweets. At night Mummy and Daddy call Esther. They ask Esther whyshe takes the sweets without requesting. Esther says that sheis sorry. Daddy and Mummy tell Esthernever again to pick anythingwithout permission.But Esther was encouraged toshare with friends the things thatshe has been given.Esther is now a good girl.She does not pick Mummy'ssweets.Mummy and Daddy love Esther.

That morning, Kaushik felt like a real detective.After all, he had just got a shiny new torch and a magnifying glass from the local store. His grandpa had said to him, "Kaushik, you look like a true detective today. I wonder what you are going to find!"Kaushik was very excited as he walked briskly towards the forest near their farm. He looked at the wet grass and said to himself, "Hmm... I think it has just rained in this place." The torch and the magnifying glass were great. He had already found his first clue. Not bad for a first time detective!Just then, he noticed a few red objects on the grass. What could these be? They looked like mushrooms. But, should a detective accept that? He wanted to be absolutely certain. So he tiptoed around these objects, took out his magnifying glass and looked closely.Wonders of wonders! He saw a tiny girl sitting there, under an umbrella. Kaushik looked at her through his magnifying glass. He asked, in a brave voice, "Who are you? What are you doing here?"The tiny girl got frightened by his loud voice and eyes, which looked enormous behind the magnifying glass. She let go of her umbrella and leaned back in fear. Through the magnifying glass, Kaushik could see her expressions clearly. She looked worried.So he told her, kindly, "Don't worry, I won't hurt you. I want to be your friend." She stared at him for few minutes and asked softly, "Is it still raining?""No, the rain stopped long ago. There is no need for an umbrella now. You can also ask your friends to close their umbrellas," said Kaushik. The girl climbed on top of Kaushik's hat and gave him a warm smile."My name is Lalitha. I live in this forest along with my family. We don't know how to build a house. So when it rains, we use our umbrellas to protect ourselves from the shower." "I can teach you and your family how to build a house. My father says that I could be a great architect someday," said Kaushik.With that, Kaushik's detective dream came to an end, and the next dream began.

Once there was a boy named Richard and he always had good luck but this day he was not going to have good luck and he knew it. He had woken up very early so he was very tired and dizzy so to wake him up he had a shower but the water was cold so he came out of the shower straight away He got dressed and had some breakfast but the breakfast was old and yuck so he decided to go outside and play with his friend Josh. But when he got outside he realised it was raining so he went back inside. Richard wanted to play with his toys but his sister Amy was taking all the toys and not sharing them so he told his mum that Amy was not sharing, but all she said was ''HUH'' He decided he would eat a snack so he went to the cupboard to grab some cookies but when he opened the door of the cupboard he saw that the ants had eaten all the cookies so now he had nothing to eat. Then at that moment he smelled something good and he saw his mum had made a very yummy cake. They really enjoyed it!

There are many ways totravel. Which will Ichoose? Should I use a plane? Planes fly very high. Iam afraid of flying! Perhaps I should use ahelcopter? But helicopters andplanes are the same! Should I perhaps use atrain? But the train station isvery far. Or, perhaps, I shoulduse a bus? Our village has only onebus! Perhaps I will use a lorryto travel. But lorries are used forcarrying heavy luggage. Should I use a bicycle totravel? But will my father giveme his bicycle? Perhaps I will try to usea boat? But I do not trust boatsvery much! Aah! I know how I willtravel! I will use atractor.

hopeis peanut butterspread thinly between two slicesof government issue breadjust enough to awakena hunger forfullness

One rainy day near a mushroom (fungi) . A seven year old boy who was explorer came to explore the area of this fungi of mushrooms.The boy was looking with his new magnifying glass when he spotted the fungi of mushrooms. He then spotted a brown patch moving. He went more close and saw a very small girl and did not panic like others do.He remained calm and patient. He then started talking to the girl. See the conversation:Boy:My name is Anurd. What is your name?Girl:My name is Thriya. I am fine. How are you? Boy:Even I am fine. How come you are so small and I am so big?Girl:I am under a magic spell. That's why I appear so small to you.Boy:Who put you under the spell?Maybe I can help you.Girl:Mrs. Grunty put me under the spell.Boy:Mrs. Grunty is my mother. We both go to my house.Boy:Mom why did you make Thriya so small?Mom:I made her so small because she was going to spoil my lab by:-1. Hitting the acid test tube.2. The acid test tube was going to fall on our cat Mew.3. It would shout so loud because of getting burnt.4. Then it would hit me.5. I would hit every test tube in our lab and it would be a disaster.That's why.Boy: Thriya apologise from mom.Girl: Sorry, aunty.Mom: Ok.Boy: Make Thriya her normal size.Mom: OK abrararararachoooooTHE END

Timmi wanted a dog her whole life. She dreamt that she had a dog of her own. Next day, she got a dog of her own. She taught her dog how to stand. She taught her dog how to lift a paw. She taught it how to think. She taught it how to be funny. She taught it how to be scary. she taught it how to touch it's nose. At the end, Timmi's dream had come true.

Ben and Thabo are two hungry boys. Granny is making ten cupcakes. She puts them on a plate. Ben takes one cupcake. Thabo takes two cupcakes. Ben takes four cupcakes. Thabo takes two cupcakes. How many cupcakes did Ben eat?How many cupcakes did Thabo eat?How many cupcakes are left for granny?

Look at our animals we keep athome. The cow gives us milk. The rabbits and cats are veryfriendly to human beings . The horse says, "Neigh." The cows and goats are paid asbride price in Uganda. The chicken says, "Cluck." The dog is a source of securityat our homes. The farmer looks after them somuch .

I like to hide dadhi's spectacles. When she finds it, I end up get scoldings. Sometimes she is angry with me. Sometimes she is not. When dadhi loses her spectacles, I help her find it. And I try to knit her a sweater. To end her day I sing her a song. To end her day I sing her a song.

One day a very clever baby wasborn in Gungululu in theEastern Cape.Her name was Sindiwe Magona.She was the oldest of eightchildren. At night, her grandmother toldmagical stories about ogres andgiants, animals of the forests,great beasts, and littlecreatures of the veld.It was Sindiwe's favourite time. Sindiwe loved school and shedreamed about being a teacher. When Sindiwe became ateenager, her family organiseda feast to celebrate.She was given special things towear and a wise old man sang apraise song to her.(Blessings, long life! May yourancestors guard you!) Sindiwe trained to be a teacher.She was very excited to teachat her first school.But there weren't enoughschools for black children andthey had no desks or books towrite in.This made Sindiwe feel scared.How could she be a goodteacher when the children hadnowhere to sit? She left the school to work as acleaner.She worked in four differenthouses. Sometimes the peoplethere treated her badly andSindiwe became very unhappy. All this time Sindiwe studied.Her hard work paid off!She won a scholarship to studyat a university in New York.She and her three smallchildren packed their bags andflew across the sea to theUnited States of America. In New York, Sindiwe studied tobecome a social worker. Shewanted to help families maketheir lives better. When she finished studying, theUnited Nations gave Sindiwe ajob.Most of the countries in theworld meet at the UnitedNations to talk about theirproblems. Sindiwe told the world aboutSouth Africa, and how hard itwas for black people livingthere.The people at the UnitedNations loved to listen toSindiwe's stories. They wantedto learn more and more aboutSouth Africans.Perhaps, together, they couldhelp to change things in SouthAfrica. She worked at the UnitedNations for twenty years whileher children grew into adults.But Sindiwe missed the countrywhere she was born.She wanted to tell her stories tothe people at home.So she packed her luggage, goton a plane and flew back overthe sea to Cape Town. Sindiwe's love for books andstories have helped her writepiles and piles of books.And children and grown-upslove to read her stories.Many people call her Nomabalibecause she's always writing,telling and reading stories.

Toku was a jungle boy. He had animal friends. Etal the elephant was his close and best friend. Tofu the turtle was his pet and cook. Blizz the bee was his *sidekick. *sidekick-a person who accompanies you. One such day, Toku got an invitation to Nela's the horse's birthday party. On the way, they met Bowwow the dog. He said he was going to the party too. So they went together. On the way. they saw Clawey the dino carrying a basket. He told them he was taking eggs to make the cake. So Clawey went along with them The next person they saw was Nomella the leopard. She said she was taking the prises for the games in the party. So she joined the group. Soon they reached the party. Nela was waiting for them. Etal, Blizz, Quackella the duck, Wishy the whale, Foorusha the frog, Tofu and Tulula the bird were there. There was a funny choir, games, a resturant, a movie and much more. It was the best party the animals and Toku had witnessed.

### BeforeDear Mr. Fish,If you went to the clouds for vaction,come back quick.if you are sleeping for extra hours,WAKE UP!You have been sleeping for exactly 2 days and 2 hours,which makes you very fishy### AfterSorry, I ran out of fish food.

The people in a village of smallhuts were becoming unhappy.Wild animals began to comeand frighten them. These animals ate all theircrops and even carried childrenaway.It was not a good place to liveany longer, but where could thepeople go? One family found the answer.It was not hard to find food upin the hills. Bushes grew in the cracksbetween rocks.Trees grew on the slopes of thehills.The parents trapped rockrabbits and the children caughtbirds. Other families noticed how wellthe hill family lived."It is a good life up in the hills,"said the husband. "You shouldcome there too." Soon the other families left theflat land and went up to thehills.Each family found a cave to livein, and felt warm and secure. Soon the children became veryquick at climbing rocks, andfinding fruit in the trees.They could swing in thebranches almost as well as anymonkey. Slowly, things began to change.The children talked less, andgrunted more. Then the adultsnoticed that their noses weregetting bigger and that theywere growing more hair. Every time they looked at oneanother they saw that theirteeth were longer.They started to walk on fourlegs. They became a new creaturethat no-one had seen before inthat place. This was thecreature which people now callthe baboon. For a time, the baboons livedhappily. They stopped chasingthe rock rabbits and ate grubsfrom the ground. They forgot how to talk. They took off their clothes becausetheir legs and arms were covered with dark hair. They still remembered that theyhad been people. They lookedat each other's big noses andlaughed at each other. But they did not like thelaughing. They jumped up anddown in anger.Soon the baboons could not betogether because of thelaughing and the anger. Eachfamily went off and lived byitself. That is why baboons live in small groups today and do not live as a baboonnation.

One day at the river, Dog came across some eggs in the sand. He asked himself, "Which animal left these eggs here?" He counted ten eggs and thought they might belong to Duck. He put them in his bag. He took the eggs home and put them in a warm place. When Dog returned to the river, he met Crocodile. She asked, "Have you seen my eggs?""I don't know anything about your eggs," he replied. Crocodile started visiting all the animals asking about her eggs. Meanwhile, the eggs hatched one by one. Dog did his best to look after the baby crocodiles, but there was never enough food. The young crocodiles were always hungry. One day Crocodile went to Dog's house looking for her eggs. As she stood outside, she heard the rumbling of little crocodile bellies! Crocodile stormed inside and hit Dog with her tail. Dog yelped and jumped through the window. Crocodile chased Dog all the way to the river. Dog cried, "I'm sorry, I didn't know they were your eggs!" Crocodile believed him and forgave him. She took her offspring for their first swimming lesson.

Here are two animals talking about. Who is the fastest animal in the forest? So they kept a race for all the animals that wanted to participate. The race began and the participants Lui the lion, Cheek the cheetah, Srap the snake, Mew the cat and Rocky the dog etc participated. The winner was Cheek the cheetah by 5.9 secs. Lui was 6.0, Srap was 9.9 secs, Mew was 6.7 secs, Rocky was 6.1 secs and Harry was 6.0 secs. So we know that the cheetah is the fastest animal.

The day that we've been talkingabout has come. We are goingto play soccer. Chiefs versusAces.Come and watch!Come with your vuvuzela! Wonderful Chiefs, the cup mustcome to sleep at home.I want us to work together as ateam in order to defeat Aces.We must attack wisely, becareful, and pass to each other. Pass the ball, pass it, Portia,Modise!Defend, defend, Jomo!There it is, there it is, let it go tothe goals! You played wonderfully, mybeautiful Chiefs!You attacked wisely, you werecareful, and you shared the ball.You played as a real team! 'High Five! Give yourselves ahand!' says the coach. Oh! We are tired, but it wasgood to prepare ourselves.When is the match, Coach? The day came that we werewaiting for. The coach broughtus the kit.Halala Chiefs, halala!It's going to be a good game.The cup is ours! Our kit is so beautiful! Thankyou, coach! You are a wonderfulcoach!

I can do this.I can hop. I can do this.I can jump. I can do this.I can dance. I can do this.I can build. I can do this.I can wink. I can do this.I can sing. I can do this.I can play. I can do this.I can read.

Once upon a time, here was a magical jungle in which all the animals could talk and sing, but one an elephant named 'JUMBO' could not do those things. So he felt very sad. One day , there was a running race in the zoo , for the animals. The elephant came very well trained but the others started telling him a slow poke but Jumbo did not lose hope. At the end, Jumbo came out victorious .Moral: Never judge someone.

Once upon a time on a little farm near a little village there lived a little chicken called Daisy. "When I grow up, I want to fly high, high into the sky," Daisy said. But all the other chickens laughed at her. "You are so weird," they said."We won't play with you anymore." "Daisy, we can all flap our wings but it's very difficult for chickens to fly," Mama told her. Daisy wouldn't give up.Every day she practised by herself, flapping her wings.Flap, flap, flap, she would flap her wings but she couldn't lift off the ground. While she practised, she imagined herself flying high into the sky and looking at the chickens below.She imagined herself flying past the sparrows and past the swallows."Wow!" the birds would say. "A chicken that can fly!" So... Flap, flap, flap, every day Daisy would flap her wings. She would lift off the ground but fall down again. "I'm never going to fly!" Daisy cried to Mama. "The others are right." "Daisy, you are different from the other chickens. They don't want to fly but you do! You can do it," Mama said. The following day Daisy climbed to the top of the chicken coop and flap, flap, flap, she flapped her wings.She flew into the air and flapped her wings...and flapped her wings...and flapped her wings...and... BAM! The other chickens laughed out loud."Ha ha ha! We told you! Chickens can't fly!" But the next day Daisy climbed even higher, right up to the top of the rondavel.Flap, flap, flap, Daisy flapped her wings. She flew into the air and flapped her wings... and flapped her wings ... and flapped her wings and... She kept flying!The wind beneath her wings grew stronger and she flew higher and higher!The sparrows and the swallows said, "Amazing! A flying chicken!" And the other chickens wanted to be just like her. They said, "Oh Daisy, you're amazing!"

In Rajasthan, there once lived a traditional folklore Singer. He traveled from village to village telling beautiful stories woven into songs. Yet his region never got any rain. As he was traveling, he came across a weird skeleton on the desert. It looked like an unusual creature. An idea sparked and he decided to try out his life-giving folklore song to bring it to life. As the Singer finished his folk song, a huge Dinosaur came to life. The Dinosaur gently smiled and licked his hand. Soon they became good friends. The Dinosaur was overjoyed to hear a story woven into a song. He also wished to learn singing. He asked the Singer to teach him a folklore song. The Singer taught the Dinosaur the oldest folk-song about rain. Once the Dinosaur learned it well, then both began singing it together. The unusual combination of the Singer and the Dinosaur's song moved the sky so much that rain bearing clouds gathered with lightening. Down came the rain drenching the desert with the sky's reward for the duet. The earth and sky rejoiced with renewed happiness along with the villagers. The region enjoyed the first welcome shower after a long time. Soon it became popular that when the Singer and the Dinosaur sang an unusual duet the sky rewarded them with rain. From then on the Singer and his Dinosaur friend were invited to perform in various villages needing rain.

It was a little girl who first saw the mysterious shape in the distance. As the shape moved closer, she saw that it was a heavily pregnant woman. Shy but brave, the little girl moved nearer to the woman."We must keep her with us," the little girl's people decided. "We'll keep her and her child safe." The child was soon on its way."Push!""Bring blankets!""Water!""Puuuuussssshhh!!!" But when they saw the baby, everyone jumped back in shock."A donkey?!" Everyone began to argue."We said we would keep mother and child safe, and that's what we'll do," said some."But they will bring us bad luck!" said others. And so the woman found herself alone again.She wondered what to do with this awkward child.She wondered what to do with herself. But finally she had to accept that he was her child and she was his mother. Now, if the child had stayed that same, small size, everything might have been different. But the donkey child grew and grew until he could no longer fit on his mother's back.And no matter how hard he tried, he could not behave like a human being. His mother was often tired and frustrated. Sometimes she made him do work meant for animals. Confusion and anger built up inside Donkey. He couldn't do this and he couldn't do that. He couldn't be like this and he couldn't be like that.He became so angry that, one day, he kicked his mother to the ground. Donkey was filled with shame. He started to run away as far and fast as he could. By the time he stopped running, it was night, and Donkey was lost."Hee haw?" he whispered to the darkness."Hee Haw?" it echoed back. He was alone.Curling himself into a tight ball, he fell into a deep and troubled sleep. Donkey woke up to find a strange old man staring down at him. He looked into the old man's eyes and started to feel a twinkle of hope. Donkey went to stay with the old man, who taught him many different ways to survive.Donkey listened and learned, and so did the old man. They helped each other, and they laughed together. One morning, the old man asked Donkey to carry him to the top of a mountain. High up amongst the clouds they fell asleep.Donkey dreamed that his mother was sick and calling to him.And when he woke up... ... the clouds had disappeared along with his friend, the old man. Donkey finally knew what to do. Donkey found his mother, alone and mourning her lost child. They stared at each other for a long time.And then hugged each other very hard. The donkey child and his mother have grown together and found many ways of living side by side.Slowly, all around them, other families have started to settle.

There was once a girl named Olivia. She lived in the US. She was on obedient girl who loved going to school. She was a scaredy cat.Her mother was a beautiful woman with curly blonde hair and blue eyes. He father was a handsome man with brown hair and brown eyes. She loved them more than anything in the world.But then the war came and her parents had to go to the war. One day she got the news that her parents disappeared in the war. She thought her parents died.She was 15 years old and she did not know what to do. Luckily she had caring grandparents and they came and lived with her.One night, she had a horrible dream which ended good. In the morning Olivia told her grandparents her dream."One night we went on a trip to India. When we were traveling a storm broke out and the aeroplane broke into many pieces and burnt in the icy ocean. Luckily the piece I was on did not burn and I was left in the icy region. I called for help. I saw an aeroplane above and waved a burning piece in the air. The people in the aeroplane saw me and picked me up. Since I looked shabby they gave me clothes to wear and food to eat. I was taken India!"Dream over.Soon after this a letter arrived with a book. She started to read the letter.Read and solve the three riddles in the Book.Love X0X0X0She opened the book and started to read Riddle 1:Come out of the maze without touching the walls.Riddle 2:Get out of fairy land without being seen.Riddle 3:Get out of the magic patch and you will find your parents in India.She closed the book and thought the riddles were true and told her grandparents about it. They told her that she had to go and find her parents. She went in search of the maze. Finally she found it as mentioned in the book.She tried getting in, but the walls kept on moving. But she did not give up. She used her ballet skills to dance through and cross the maze without touching the walls.She reached the fairy land, she put on some wings and disguised herself as a fairy and crossed without being seen. She reached the magic patch. Now she used her western dance skills to make it past the magic patch.She finally saw her parents at a distance and could not believe her eyes. She ran to them and they hugged each other. They finally made it past everything and reached home.Olivia asked her parents how they were lost and who had sent her the letter. Her parents did not know anything about it. In any case everything ended happily.Up above unknown to Olivia, a fairy Godmother smiled down on the family. She knew Olivia loved her parents very much and would do anything for them. Thats why she had sent the letter.

It was the first wedding in theTenane family, and Refiloe hadnever been so excited in her life."I'm going to be Palesa'sbridesmaid, with a new dress andshoes!" she said to her chickens.Refiloe told her chickens everything.Her father had given the chickensto her as a birthday present, andshe loved them very much. "Take those dirty scruffy chickensout of here Refiloe!" shouted hermother, "I don't want themanywhere near this wedding tent." Refiloe shooed her chickens out ofthe tent."Run away you silly things." shesaid, "I don't want you to be eatenat Palesa's wedding!" "Mme says that this is going to be the best weddingever seen in Malealea," Refiloe told her chickens,"and she says that I can help all the older girls withthe cooking."The chickens paid no attention to her."Refiloe!" called her mother from inside, "leave thosechickens of yours and come and help me with thesepots please!" Refiloe's mother was very proud of her house, and wanted it to beperfect for the wedding. She cleaned and washed and scrubbedand scoured and polished everything in sight. When she hadfinished, there was not a single speck of dust anywhere.The chickens poked their heads inside the front door. "Out!"shouted Refiloe's mother, "out you scruffy things with your dirtyfeet and beaks!" Refiloe followed her chickens out into the yard."Mme is right, you are a disgrace," she scolded themSo Refiloe thought for a while. Suddenly she smiledand said to herself, "I have an excellent idea."She went and filled a bucket with water from thespring.Refiloe had a lot of trouble catching her chickens.They did not think that a bath was such a good idea. Refiloe put the first chicken into thebucket of water.It clucked at the top of its voice andflapped its wings like crazy."Hold still you silly thing," Refiloeshouted, "this won't take long!"When Refiloe wiped the chicken'snose and eyes it suddenly wentlimp andflopped over the side of the bucket. "This is no time to sleep," saidRefiloe. She gave it a good shake toget all the water out."If you are not going to wake upnow, I'll have to put you somewhereto dry nicely," she said. She laid thechicken out on the grass to dry.The chicken lay completely still. Refiloe washed each and every one of her chickens.Each and every one of them went limp and floppybefore she was finished with it.She put all those eight chickens in a row on the grassto dry.Not one of them moved a single feather."I'll leave them to sleep a little," Refiloe thought toherself, and off she went to check on the moroho. Mme Ngwe and Mme Pedi wereRefiloe's aunts. They did not likeeach other at all.The aunts had been preparing formonths for Palesa's wedding, butthey would not even think aboutriding together in the same taxi. Mme Ngwe spotted Refiloe's chickens laid out to dry."What a nice little snack for me to take home!" shesaid to herself.She took off her chale and carefully wrapped allthose chickens up in it.Not a single chicken moved."Perfect!" she smiled, "now I shall put themsomewhere where Mme Pedi will not ever find them,"and she put the bundle around the corner among thepumpkin vines. Mme Pedi decided to make her famous pumpkin dish. She took herbig bowl and went off to the vegetable garden.In the vegetable garden she saw Mme Ngwe's bundle under thepumpkin vine. She undid the bundle.Out fell all eight chickens. "Eish!" she cried jumping back insurprise."Oh, you are the cleanest, prettiest chickens! Just ready for mypot," she crooned."Now, where shall I hide you my darlings?" Mme Pedi chuckled, "I'llhave to find a very good place," she said walking round the house."I know," she said at last, "I'll put you on the roof!"Mme Pedi climbed up onto the garden wall and put the chickens ina row on the thatched roof. The next day the sun rose in good time for the wedding. Refiloewas up first and went to see her chickens.She saw that they were no longer lying on the grass."They must be nicely dry by now. I'm sure they have gone to lookfor their breakfast," she said. Palesa's wedding was wonderful.Those chickens did not get up off the roof to join inwhen all the bridesmaid ladies danced into the yard.Not one of the chickens stirred when the church choirsang in their loudest, sweetest voices.The chickens were still lying on the roof when thepriest gave his sermon.They did not even twitch a feather when the pigs andRefiloe's grandfather all snored loudly in the middleof the sermon.Not one foot of those chickens trembled when sheepwandered into the tent, nearly knocking over thewedding cake. It was only when the groom's fatherwas halfway through his speechthat things started to change onthat roof. The first chicken spread its wings and flew onto Mme Ngwe'sbosom. Mme Pedi next to her started giggling.Another chicken flew up onto Mme Ngwe's new duku. The peopleat the next table tried not to laugh.The lady next to Mme Ngwe put her head down onto the table, "Ai,aai, aaaaii, he, he, heeeeeeee!" she cackled.All the other chickens decided to join the first two. You couldn't seeMme Ngwe for all those chickens! The guests screamed with laughter.The men had to hold onto their bellies.The women rolled around in their chairs.The boys and girls were hanging onto each other.The grandmothers could hardly breathe for laughing.The grandfathers stamped their walking sticks.Then the two aunts looked at each other and started giggling.Mme Pedi opened her mouth wide with laughter. Mme Ngwe threwback her head and laughed until all her chins shook.Refiloe couldn't believe it! All the guests agreed that it was the best wedding entertainmentever known in Malealea."Oh you are so lucky!" Refiloe said to her chickens as she put theminto their coop for the night, "Mme says that she will never put youin the supper pot.""But look how dirty you are again," she told them, "I think I'll haveto give you another wash tomorrow!"

Illustrators: Sanjay Sarkar, Suvidha MistryOnce upon a time, there was a girl who always feared making friends. Sheela was very shy and made no new friends.Her teacher informed Sheela's mother Vishali about her lack of friends. Her mother became worried that she would be friendless when she grew up.One day, Sheela's mother Vishali decided to visit her sister's house in the forest.Sheela's Aunt Rupali was a medicine woman and had a cure for all kinds of health and relationship troubles.Vishali and Sheela reached the medicine woman Rupali's hut. But the hut was empty. Vishali told Sheela that she would go search for her sister.Sheela was very tired from walking and begged to stay in the hut to rest awhile.Vishali sliently left her sleeping as per her sister's instructions. Sheela fell asleep on a divan near the huge mirror.In her foggy mind, Sheela heard someone sobbing softly. A little worried and anxious, Sheela got up and looked around to find the person who was crying. All of a sudden, Sheela sensed someone was staring at her. She looked around to find out who it was but found nothing.As she was intending to give up, she saw her image wink at her from the huge mirror.The image in the mirror did not imitate her actions as mirror should. But it behaved rather in a weird fashion. She tried to hide and peep but it continued to stare at her.Sheela meekly asked, “Wwwho are you?”“I'm your shadow, Leela,” said Sheela's image.“Leela, I never heard of you and I don't speak to strangers,” retorted Sheela and started to run away from the hut.Sheela began to cry hard and her shadow cried harder than her. Out of fear Sheela started shouting her mother's name and her shadow Leela too followed her calling out Sheela's mother's name.Sheela got really vexed with her Shadow Leela. But she also found out that she has wandered into the forest and has lost her way. Sheela turned back to her Shadow Leela and asked her if she knew the way back. Shadow Leela jumped with joy and said that she knew of game which can take them back her Aunt Rupali's hut.So Sheela and Leela started in slow progress to play. Soon Sheela totally forgot her shyness and became engrossed in the game. After a while, Sheela realized that, they had still not reached the hut. Shadow Leela suggested that they dance their way back to the hut.Both started to dance their best traditional moves hoping to get back to Aunt Rupali's hut as early as possible. By now Sheela was totally frightened and unable to remain brave. She expressed her fear to her new Shadow Friend Leela.Leela suggest that they climb up the tree to find out where her aunt's hut was situated.Once they climbed up the tree, both forgot about searching for their aunt's hut began enjoying the view. When it became dark, both climbed down and began thinking of how they would reach Rupali's hut.Sheela spotted a parrot and asked for her help. The Parrot agreed to help her if she gave her little nose stone.Sheela immediately agreed the parrot showed her the way to her Rupali's hut. Once they reached the hut the parrot left with his reward for showing the way. Sheela and her Shadow Leela were overjoyed to reach safely the hut.In a short time, Sheela realized that she could make friends, if she let herself enjoy the moments of friendship building. In great joy Sheela hugged her Shadow Leela and said, "Leela you are my best friend in the world." Shadow Leela said smilingly, “It is not difficult to make friends after all.” Sheela agreed.Then suddenly, Shadow Leela turned into Aunt Rupali. Surprised Sheela understood the value of making friends that her aunt taught her. Meanwhile, Sheela found her mother waiting in the herb sorting room. Then both went home happily.

The Winter cold had passed.Spring was coming to Nkanyezi's village.Soon the villagers would gather to celebrate the new season. Nkanyezi looked forward to the Spring festival more than any other day in the year. One warm morning, Nkanyezi overheard two village elders talking about the festival."The people of Ndlovu have lost their spirit of celebration," one sighed."How can we have a Spring festival in a village that has forgotten how to celebrate?" asked another. Nkanyezi was worried."How will the sun shine again unless we sing to wake it from its winter slumber?" she asked herself.Nkanyezi thought for a long time."I must find what we have lost," she decided."I must go in search of things that will bring back the spirit of celebration to my village." The elders gave Nkanyezi their blessing for the journey. They gave her a bag to carry the things she would find.Nkanyezi was afraid, but she believed she would succeed. Nkanyezi walked all day. She hiked up a hill, and down into a valley. She sailed across the great river, and climbed between sharp rocks. She marched across the plains until she reached the shadow of the red mountains. As night was closing in, Nkanyezi arrived at a village of patterns and colours as she had never seen before. She told the village elders about her journey to bring back the spirit of celebration to her people.The mother of this tribe gave Nkanyezi a gift. She told the girl, "With love we give to you this paint to restore colour to a village that has gone dull."Nkanyezi thanked the elders and put the paint in her bag.Early the next morning she went on her way, excited with this gift of colour. Nkanyezi walked all day, through a vast forest of giant trees. As the sky became too dark for her to see, she heard the sound of beating drums. She hurried towards the drumming, feeling the spirit of dance coming to her tired feet. Nkanyezi found herself in the village of the Bhubezi. People were sitting around a fire, drumming and singing. She had never before heard such wonderful music.She told the village elders about her journey to bring back the spirit of celebration to her people. The Bhubezi invited her to rest and stay the night. In the morning the chief called on Nkanyezi."My child," he said, "here is a special drum. It plays a new song every time you beat it."Nkanyezi thanked the elders and put the drum in her bag. She went on her way again, delighted with this gift of music and dance. On the third day of her journey, as she a passed a field of fat cows, her nose started to tingle. An aroma tickled her taste buds and her mouth started to water. She followed the scent, and arrived in a village to find people standing over steaming pots of stew.This tribe was famous for its feasts and Nkanyezi had never before tasted such flavours. After she had eaten her fill, she told the village elders about her journey to bring back the spirit of celebration to her people. The next day, the council of cooks gave her a secret spice blend."Our daughter," they said, "with these spices, happy tummies are guaranteed! We give you the gift of good food."Nkanyezi thanked the elders and put the spices in her bag.She knew she had everything she needed. With new energy she started the long journey back to the village of Ndlovu. When she arrived home the villagersgathered around her to hear of heradventures. She told them the talesof what she had seen, heard, andeaten.Then she opened her bag toshare the gifts given. The villagersrejoiced to receive these treasures.The generosity of others and the courage of Nkanyezi brought back colour,song and dance to the people.And so the spirit of celebration was restored to the village of Ndlovu.

Latika , Vidvath and Shubhi were very excited to know that they would go to Gudi Gudi on a vacation. Shubhi and Latika had brought some fruits , but feared that the ants will eat them. Vidvath brought his paratha along as well. Everyone happily went to the station along with Mummy and Papa. The porter took the luggage along Vidvath , Latika and Shubhi sat on their seats. They had the vegetables and fruits as well which they had brought. Everybody had a great lunch. The train was going over the bridge. Vidvath was very happy to see the water below in the river. Once Shubhi , Latika and Vidvath reached the train station , they went further to the mountains in a bus.

Once upon a time there lived anelderly woman who alwayswanted a child. The woman took the best clay soil she could find andstarted to make a girl. The girl who was made of mudthen turned into a real humangirl. The elderly woman was veryhappy.She named the girl Akatope.She loved Akatope very much. Akatope was warned by herelderly mother not to come outof the hut but she would notlisten.Whenever her mother was notaware, Akatope would sneakout to play with the otherchildren. One day as Akatope was outplaying with the other children,it began to rain hard. The other children ran to theirhuts but as Akatope ran to hers,her legs started to dissolve.She hunched over and sat downbetween bushes. The other children told theirparents what had happened toAkatope.They were very sad andshocked. When the elderly woman heardwhat had happened to her onlychild, she cried for many days.The villagers who visited her,decided to bring another littlegirl who had been orphaned totake the place of Akatope. But that was not necessary.A big surprise awaited the elderly woman! Few days after the orphan girlhad been welcomed to theelderly woman's home, therewas a gentle knock on the door. "Who could that be," the elderlywoman wondered.When she opened the door, shecould not contain her joy. Akatope had come home.But she was tired and sick. Akatope's elderly mother soldeverything she owned.She used the money to treatAkatope.Akatope grew up to be the mostbeautiful girl in the village.

It was a beautiful summer day in the Forest-By-The-Sea in the glorious land of Somewheristan. Whales danced in the waves, singing to each other. Sea lions, their smooth brown bodies glistening in the sun, played peek-a-boo with the noisy seagulls, barking and scolding.Every creature in the Forest was happy, happy, happy. Excuse me! you say. That can't be true. There's NEVER a time when EVERY creature ANYwhere is happy, happy, happy.Hmmm. Maybe you're right. Maybe not EVERY creature was happy. This journalist bear, for instance.In this picture, Bear is trying to smile, but he has a great sorrow. He simply cannot find a ‘BREAKING NEWS' story. He even sent Bird to look - because Bird moves faster and sees better - but Bird came back with nothing. ‘BREAKING NEWS' stories are about anger and fear and hate and greed, and there was none of that in the Forest. Everything was happy, happy, happy.A journalist bear without a ‘BREAKING NEWS' story doesn't deserve to be a journalist bear, thought Bear sadly to himself. He should be a Waiter Bear, or a Sweeper Bear, or a Telephone Voice Bear, saying, ‘Please check the number you have dialled', or ‘Kindly wait - you are in a queue'. He packed his things and started walking to the bus-stop, when Singing Sardarji popped out from behind a tree. “Arrey oh Journalist Bear!” said Sardarji. “Going somewhere?”“Don't call me that or I will cry,” said Bear, and told Sardarji he was leaving to become a Telephone Voice Bear.“Don't be such a silly bear, Bear!” scolded Sardarji. He pulled out a guitar and began to sing.“If Tweety birds stop tweeting,and Hooty Owls stop hooting,the world would be a sad playyyy-ce,don't you see?” “Don't you seeeeeeee?” sang the Tweety Birds and the Hooty Owls.“If Singing Sardarjis don't,and Journalist Bears won't,the world would be a bad playyyyy-ce, don't you see?” sang Sardarji. “I do enjoy being a Journalist Bear,” Bear said sadly. “I do love finding out things, and talking to people, and writing their stories, but I also do NOT have a ‘BREAKING NEWS' story, which means...”‘A-HA!' said Singing Sardarji.“What?” said Bear, puzzled.“You like finding out things! And talking to people! And writing their stories! You are a Journalist Bear, Bear, but you have the soul of a... drumroll please... Writer Bear!” Bear beamed. Sardarji was right! He really WAS a Writer Bear.“Tell you what, Bear,” Sardarji went on, “let's travel the world, you and I. I will sing, and you, Bear, will write. Not 'BREAKING NEWS' stories - no one remembers those after three days, anyway - but real stories of real people, stories that will never grow old.”“Hurray!” said Bear. And that was how Writer Bear and Singing Sardarji set out to explore the world.Everywhere they went, Sardarji sang to the people, and Bear listened to them. Over time, Bear wrote many, many stories. Happy stories that made people cry, funny stories that made them think, sad stories that made them hope, and scary stories that made them laugh.And Storyweavers all over the world picked up the long, strong, shining threads of Bear's stories, and wove them into new and wonderful stories for all of us to enjoy.

Little Golu was roaming in a jungle with a magic torch in his hand. Golu always wanted to become a detective. Suddenly he saw red colored umbrellas in the jungle. They were very big in size. Golu went near the red umbrellas. And look what he found with his magic torch?A cute little girl. She was lost in the jungle while playing. So she was very sad. Golu promised her to take her back home. And they became good friends

I am Ana Maria Namata My dad is Mr. Agaba Ali. My mum is AnangaAsha. She cares andloves so much. Dad wants apples and ants. Apples and ants are sweet. Angela and Agatha play with toy cats and rabbits. Male is a tall man. Apples are packed in a basket. Namata, Cathy, Sara,Ali and Aba sattogether. Mummy taught mewords with sound Aa Namagala is a prayerfulgirl. Asaba and Akello learnt about atrain. Sound Aaa i will never forget you.

A crocodile has bigteeth. A lion has big teeth aswell. A cow has strong teeth. Birds do not have teeth. Rats have big frontteeth. Sharks have sharpteeth. I used to have a lot ofteeth. But now I don't havemany.

This story happened during the great famine in Rajasthan. The village farmlands all over the state looked like wide spans of desert under the cloudless sky. The Villagers of Jaisalmer were not sure how to bring rain in their part of the village. Even the Traditional Folklore Singer couldn't bring blessings of rain with his heart-moving songs.Eventually, the Folklore Singer decided to travel to the haunted village of Kuldhara to get the help of his Master's spirit.Early next day, the Singer started from his village. He was confident that his wise Master would have a solution for his village's rainproblems. He was willing to face any challenge to find a solution.After walking many miles, the Singer saw an object growing big slowly as he walked towards it. When he was close enough, he found a huge bone.Now the Singer was greatly puzzled as to which animal it could possibly be to have such a huge skeleton. He then remembered his Master teaching him a folklore song that brought dead animals to life.So he began singing with great joy and soon with each dip and fall of his song the bones got their life back. Almost at the end of the songthe huge bone structure turned to be a creature from the ancient past.The creature was a Dinosaur which looked at him with wide-eyed wonder. The Singer was happy to bring life to the Dinosaur. Now that his work was done, he decided to walk his way to Kuldhara to meet his Master.As he walking away, he heard the loud thumping of the Dinosaur's feet following him. He turned to the creature and said that he should go his way where ever he wishes to go.But the creature would just smile athim and lick his face. The Singer understood the creature is going to follow him all his way. In the end, he decided maybe he could show this creature to his Master after all and took him along with him.The odd pair of the Singer and Dinosaur made their way toward Kuldhara. On the way the Singer would sing a few songs to keep him entertained and the Dinosaur would shake his head and tail keeping with the song's rhythm.Soon they reached Kuldhara at night fall. The Singer walked to his Master's house. At the house, the door opened and all their needs were magically taken care.That night, the Singer placed all the offering that he brought with him at his Master's prayer room altar and awaited his arrival. At the stroke of midnight the Master appeared before the Singer.The Singer bowed before his Master's spirit and asked him for help to solve the rain problem of his village. The Master smiled and said, “You have travelled far, so rest a while. We will talk later tomorrow.”“Master I even tried the rain song folklore too. Yet nothing happened and my people are thinking of leaving the village, please help me master,” cried the Singer in desperation.“I did tell you that we will talk later. So don't worry, your answers will be with you in the morning,” said the Master's spirit.The Singer as per his Master's command slept in house and the next day was getting ready to leave, when he heard someone singing off tune. He searched for the person singing so off-key.A huge surprise waited for the Singer because the off-tune song was sung by the Dinosaur. The Dinosaur on seeing the Singer immediately stopped singing and said, “Did I disturb you?”“You sounded a little off-key but youhave a nice voice though,” said the Singer not wishing to hurt the creature's feelings.“Do you think that I can learn to sing?” asked the Dinosaur.The Singer thought of the years of practice that goes into learning to sing. He didn't want to discourage the Dinosaur, so he said, “Yes, you can but you need to be dedicated to singing.”The Singer visited his Master's prayer room altar and took his leave. He found a new rain song folklore wound with a red silken cloth.The Singer read through it and thanked his Master for helping him with a new rain song. He was now had a plan of learning the song and making it rain in his village.As the odd pair of the Singer and Dinosaur walked towards Jaisalmer, the Singer kept practicing the song on the way. The Dinosaur listened attentively to the song and kept time with his stomping.By half the way, the Singer had learned the song as per his Master's notation. So he decided that he would sing it once to see if he got it right.As he was singing, the cloud beganto crowd in and they seemed to be ready to rain. When the Singer looked out with hope the rain bearing cloud dispersed without showering rain. The Singer was greatly disappointed.By then, the Singer and Dinosaur had reached traveling nomad's camp and joined them to rest for the night.Once the camp members and the Singer had gone to bed for the night, the Dinosaur began his practice of his new song that he had been learning from listening to the Singer.At one of the high pitches of thesong, the sleeping Singer woke up and heard the Dinosaur sing the rain song off-keys.The Singer remembered the time when his Master had spoken about rainmaking songs. “The best rain songs are those that are sung as a duet!”“Maybe this was the solution that Master has been hinting to me so long,” thought the Singer.For the reminder of the way the Singer taught the Dinosaur how to sing the rain making song in tune. When they reached Jaisalmer the whole village was frightened of the huge Dinosaur.But the Singer pacified them and told them it was a gentle and harmless creature who can sing. He also told them that he found a solution for making rain with his singing Dinosaur friend.When the villagers heard that the Dinosaur could help with bringing rain, then, they began laughing and mocking them.Just to prove the villager wrong and to strengthen his faith in his new found friend, the Singer decided to sing the rain song as a duet.The unusual combination of the Singer and the Dinosaur's rain song moved the skyso much that the rain bearing clouds gathered and there fell huge showers of rain with lightening. The rain drenched the village with life-giving water and it was the best reward from the sky to earth for the soul-moving rain song duet.Soon both the Singer and the Dinosaur became famous as a rain making songster pair. So whenever there was a need for rain this pair of odd singers would visit the village and sing their duet to make the sky reward them with showers of rain.- The End -

Cooozzzz... Cooozzzssss....What is this strange noise?Is it the sound of the red car racing towards me or the new big train making its rounds?No.. Over Amma's high pitched voice, it was the milk boiler and pressure cooker singing a tune together!It could only mean one thing.It is morning already!!!“Kutti wake up! It's getting late for school!”I heard amma's voice from the kitchen.Kutti opened his eyes unwillingly to a bright room.He searched for the bed sheet his mother had carefully removed, forcing him to wake up.“Kutti, Head to the bathroom before amma discovers you are still in bed!” said appa. As Kutti headed to the bath room to brush his teeth, he tried to makes sense of how it can be morning so soon.“Appa, how many minutes are there for evening to become morning?” asked Kutti slowly sipping his milk.Before appa could explain, amma frisked him away to get him ready to school. On the way to school, Kutti met his best friend Cheenu.“Cheenu, you remember the day when Mottu promised to let us play with his video games as long as we wanted? But he took it away from us as we were about to win?” Asked Kutti.“Of course... Bad Mottu.. Wait till I bring those ghee murukku's that Mottu is so fond of!!” planned Cheenu with a mischievous grin on his face.“Listen da, Cheenu. I think someone else is also playing similar tricks on us” said Kutti sounding worried.“Only it is someone big and powerful”.“Who, da?” asked Cheenu looking serious.Kutti whispered unsure of his answer “Hmm. You know, someone who has lot of power and can do magic.. Someone like God....” All evening, kutti felt restless.Is God really tricking me?He remembered going to bed the previous night and having a game of racing cars over his pillows.Then started the tickle fight with appa, until amma switched off the lights. He then remembered listening to the funny story of the donkey and the fox.“What happened next? How could it be morning so soon after going to bed?” he wondered.That night he declared that he was going to sleep with thatha unmindful of the protests from appa and amma. As expected, thatha helped him win the battle and he settled down to get cozy inthatha's warm bed. “Thatha, like appa and amma listen to you, does papa God listen to Grandpa God?” Asked Kutti.Thatha somehow found all of Kutti's questions to be funny. After a big laugh, he said God must be pretty sure of things God does and may not need supervision unlike us.“But thatha, explained kutti, God has got his timings all wrong. He is not calculating the change from night to morning well”.With a warm smile and reassuring nod, thatha said that this is one place where Math skills will help.He explained the concepts of seconds, minutes and hours to Kutti. He also told Kutti to take note of the time in the night and check the clock the first thing in the morning. Reassured, Kutti slept happily. The next morning before appa could snooze the alarm which was ringing loud, Kutti was on his feet rushing out of the bedroom.He ran to the clock and to his surprise noticed that the clock's hands had moved and were pointing to different numbers since the previous night!!Thatha was right!Kutti felt happy and reassured that God was not cheating after all!He was busy planning his next move when he heard appa say “How does he know to wake up so early on a Saturday!”

Once upon a time, there was aman who thought that theyouth were wiser than theirelders. He even bragged aboutit before his wife.He said to her, "I am wiser thanyour father."His wife disagreed with him, buthe would not listen to her. One day when the wife went tosee her parents, she told herfather about how his son-in-lawclaims to be wiser than himbecause he is younger.The old man sent his daughterback to ask her husband if hestill held the same view. Her husband sent her back. "Goand tell your father to preparefor me a drink brewed frommist.""Now I will prove to my fatherin-law that I am indeed verywise," he chuckled.No one can make a drink frommist. The father-in-law just laughed itoff as no alcohol could be madeout of mist. However, the oldman sent the daughter backwith a message accepting thechallenge of preparing a brewfrom mist. But on condition thatwhen it was ready, the one tocollect it should neither be aman nor a woman. The son-in-law found himselftrapped.From that time, he believed inthe old saying that "Shoulderswill never grow taller than thehead."

Inyang was a herd's boy. One day... ...he was veryhungry He got a bird... ...and sent it home. The bird flew... ...and landed on the hut. People heard the bird. Food was cooked. They took food... ... found him under the tree. The cows had gone. They fed him. His father went for the cows. Inyang ate enough. Inyang and the cows were taken home. The bird had saved Inyang!!

Small kitten was playing in the garden. She saw a fruit on the tree and wanted to eat it. She was very small to climb the tree. But she had lot of courage and decided to climb the tree. With lot of effort, it finally climbed and tree and ate the fruit. Suddenly, it started raining and the kitten was frightened. It did not know how to come down. One boy saw the kitten and came to catch it. He brought a ladder to use for climbing the tree. Kitten called her monkey friend for help. The monkey took the kitten on its back and jumped from the tree and safely rescued the brave kitten.

Once upon a time, there lived a mancalled Mairu in Bubaali Village.Heliked to eat meat so much. One day, the chairman of Bubaalivillage invited all the villagers to hiswedding that was to take place athis home. Then Mairu also heard that therewas another wedding in Nabuyanjavillage."Ugh! ugh! ugh!Two parties on thesame day!" Mairu imagined. "I must attend both parties," ha haha said. "I will first walk to Bubaalithen come back to Nabuyanja." Mairu woke up very early in themorning and walked to Bubaalivillage. He looked around and sawthat the party had not yet started."I will go back to Nabuyanja andreturn to Bubaali later," Mairusuggested to him self, yes! yes!hope i will not be late. Mairu walked gently back to Bubaalihoping to find the meat ,rice,sodasand matooke ready. He was nowvery hungry. When he arrived, menand women were still preparing thefood. "I left cooks at Bubaali preparing tocook," he thought. "The food mustbe ready now." Mairu decided towalk back to Nabuyanja under hotsunshine , i will not loose hope headded! Mairu arrived at the Bubaali party,people had already eaten andcleaned the utensils. Guests weregiving presents to the bride and thegroom. Mairu was verydisappointed. he looked displacedand every one became concerned.but his target was to eat enough . . He decided to walk back toNabuyanja village. Because he washungry and tired, he could not walkfast any more. When he arrived at Nabuyanjavillage, the food was over and itwas time for the bride and groomgiving a speech. Upon hearing that there was nofood, Mairu fell and fainted. He hadmissed meat from both parties. Allhe got was some posho and beanson a small plate yet his target wasto eat meat. gently ,he walked back homecursing never to serve two mastersat ago.

One Day man went to forest and to see the forest, Practice the music over there. He found the some good decent place over there and found one interesting Big Mushroom over there. He started sitting over the Mushroom and practicing over there for a while. After a few days of Practicing the Birds and Animals are started listening to music of him.

Tingi lived with his grandmother. He used to look after the cows with her. One day the soldiers came. They took the cows away. Tingi and his grandmother ran away and hid. They hid in the bush until night. Then the soldiers came back. Grandmother hid Tingi under the leaves. One of the soldiers put his foot right on him, but he kept quiet. When it was safe, Tingi and his grandmother came out. They crept home very quietly.

Once upon a time, there was a goat called Igodhoobe. Igodhoobe the goat was the king of farm animals and birds. He lived a good life. One day, Igodhoobe the goat called all the animals and birds to a meeting. "My friends, I have called you because I had a dream," said Igodhoobe the king. All the animals and birds kept quiet. They listened to their king carefully. "I dreamed that there was no food or water left in the land. Many of our relatives died!" said Igodhoobe the king. When the animals and the birds heard the dream, they were worried. "What shall we do?" asked the cat. The hen and the duck had an idea. They said, "Let each one of us bring food and put it in the king's store." All the animals agreed with this idea. Igodhoobe the king made a rule. He said, "Get ropes. Tie up anyone who does not bring food to my store. Then carry him to me." Soon after this, it was time for a new king to rule over the farm. All the animals and birds met and elected the cat as their new king. But Igodhoobe the goat refused to agree that the cat was king. "I'm the king. There is no other king. I can't obey any other animal," said Igodhoobe the goat. The animals took food to the new king's store. But Igodhoobe the goat did not take anything. "When Igodhoobe the goat was king, we all obeyed him. Now he does not want to obey our new king. What shall we do to him?" asked the cow. All the domestic animals and birds were angry. "He thinks he is different to us," they all muttered. The dog said, "I helped him when he was king. I did not sleep at night. I was always with him, ready to help." The sheep said, "I gave him my wool to cover his children." The pig said, "When he was king, he told his friends that I eat a lot. But I was often in his garden digging and weeding his maize and millet." The sheep asked, "What did he say? That you eat a lot? Did he think that he will be king forever?" Then the sheep added, "Let him understand that he is not king any more. I don't know why he thinks he is so important." All the animals laughed and agreed that Igodhoobe the goat must take food to the new king. King Cat ordered Igodhoobe to come to him. When the animals went to fetch Igodhoobe the goat, he was sitting on a chair with his legs crossed. The cow told Igodhoobe what the new king said. "I shall not go to the cat. There is no other king except me. When you become a king, you are always a king," replied Igodhoobe the goat. "We will tie you with ropes and take you to the new king," said the sheep. So the cow tied Igodhoobe the goat to her tail. She then pulled Igodhoobe to the king. The sheep, the duck, the dog, the pig, and the cock cheered as the cow pulled the goat. They all shouted together, "Take this stubborn goat to our new king!" From that time, every goat refuses to move when it is pulled. It thinks that you are taking it to the king's court.

A group of children were living in a untidy place and they wanted to improve the living condition. They wanted to clean their surroundings and started to clean that place , at that time a dog came and started barking on them. But the children din't want to leave and continued cleaning for better health and improve their skills in cleaning and decorating. Moral of the story is: Children are thoughtful on living conditions and having skills of cleaning and decorating

Where are you going my little goat? I am going to market to buy a new coat. A coat for a goat? Can a goat have a coat? People will laugh at a goat with a coat!

On Wednesday morning, i went to my school. I greeted my teacher. The teacher asked me the question on Maths. I told that i don't know teacher. The cat torn my testpaper and threw it.The teacher said i will beat you. Write the answer and bring it tomorrow.

Once upon a time, there was arooster and a hare.They were very good friends. One night, Hare visited Roosterand his family at home.They enjoyed supper together. Then came the time to go tobed.Hare saw that as Rooster andhis family slept, their headswere hidden. Hare saw that Rooster and hisfamily slept very well.He was not able to sleep thewhole night. In the morning, Hare wanted toknow Rooster's secret."Where do you put your headsat night?" he asked. Rooster decided to play a jokeon Hare.He said, "My friend, we birdshave a secret for going to sleep.At bedtime, we chop off ourheads. Without heads, we sleepvery well." "Then in the morning, we putour heads back on," explainedRooster. Hare went home and told hisfamily the secret of thechickens.The Hare family decided to try itthemselves!What do you think happened?

A Chameleon is color changing animal and it is small in size.On day, Chameleon sleeping on a tree and from the other side a snake came on the same tree.Chameleon got scared on started changing its color, It has changed color to brown and started running away from snake. The snake started following the chameleon & Chameleon started moving from tree to sand and in between stones to escape from snake by changing color.Now after escaping from snake, Chameleon was very tired and he wants to drink water and take rest in some safe place. On the way to Pond, Chameleon saw crocodiles and was scared to go near. Then he changed color and went slowly near pond to drink water. After drinking water chameleon went to bushes and changed color of bushes and finally relaxed there.

Once upon a time,there lived two rats.One rat lived in thebush. The other rat lived in ahouse. One day, the rat thatlived in the house saidto the rat that lived inthe bush, "You eatbadly, sleep badly, andit rains on you." "But us, we sleep inchief's houses. We eatmany different kinds offood. One day comeand visit me and see,"said the house rat."I will come this verynight," said the bushrat. "I'm ready like astraw for taking soda." Meanwhile the owner ofthe house was furious.He cursed, "These ratsthat eat my food, theywill see!" This time, heset a trap with sugar. The rats came in to eat thegoodies in the house. They camelaughing,"Chu...chu...chi...chi...che...che!" When they reached thetrap the house rat said,"Let me taste thissugar. You see thegoodies we eat here." But before the rat couldtake the sugar, the trapsnapped, PA! The trapcaught the rat's head,and his eyes bulged likeeggplants. The bush rat justlooked, amazed. Hesaid, "E...heee! Myfriend, which goodiesdid you eat that madeyour eyes bulge?" But the house rat could not reply. The bush rat left thehouse saying,"Haa! I will not managethese goodies youpraise." Your worst home isbetter than yourneighbour's best home.

Dad loves porridge. I love cornflakes. Dad loves coffee. I love milk. Dad loves apples. I love oranges. Dad loves bread.I love toasted bread. We both love fat cakes(vetkoek).

One boy is going back home from the school, there is a dog feeling hungry near to his place.That boy passing in front of that dog, then the dog saw his books which are in his hand.Dog grabbed the book with her mouth and boy was fearful and he left his book there and run away.

Mother Sun decided to visit her sister, the moon.Sister Moon lives on the other side of the sky. "I will be back soon," said Sun to the clouds. When Sun left, the mountains put on their white scarves. Wind had an argument with the trees.The trees became angry.They threw their leaves all over the place. The sky started to grumble.She turned grey. The clouds were sad to see all this.They started crying.There were many tears. The whole world began to sink under water. Meanwhile, on the other side of the sky,Sun was ready to leave her sister.She kissed the moon goodbye and went home. Sky was so happy to see Sun that she turned bright blue.The mountains put on their pretty green dresses. The wind went to sleep.The trees stretched their branches and smiled. The clouds were very happy to see mother Sun again.They went away to play. Lots of little plants popped out of the earth to say, "Hello."The whole world sparkled. Mother Sun shone her light everywhere."I told you I would be back," she beamed.

I love my teacher. She is beautiful. She isa good teacher. She iskind and patient. She has braided herhair very nicely today. She has decorated herhair with colourfulbeads. Her beads are green,white, red, and yellow. Mom, please would youbraid my hair like myteacher's? When I am older I willalso put beads in myhair. I will grow up to be justlike my teacher!

Once up on a time there was a king who like music a lot. He loves to play music in his garden. Whenever he plays music all the birds, small creatures and animals will listen to his music and dances well. That's how he enjoy his day to day life. He got sick and died . After so many years he born as a common man and he loves music in this life as well. He will daily go to forest to get food, and while going to forest he plays with guitar and enjoys through out the way and make birds and animals to dance for his music. His family members loves his music a ton and encourages him to participate in many music competitions. Once he got a chance to participate in the music competition and he did participation and got a wonderful prize for his music.

Tasneem was a very beautiful girland her grandmother was verykind. Her grandmother spent many hoursmaking a handsome makgabe forTasneem. Tasneem loved to wearthat apron. The other girls in that place werejealous of Tasneem's makgabe.They thought that it would be betterto get rid of it.But it is a difficult thing to take aperson's clothes when that personis wearing them. One morning the girls invitedTasneem to go swimming with themin a river nearby. At the river bank,they all took off their makgabes sothat the cloth would not bedamaged.Then they jumped into the waterand splashed around for some time. They finished swimming. The leaderof the jealous girls threw Tasneem'smakgabe into the river, near theplace of a very large snake. Then allthe other girls left Tasneem cryingby the river. The large snake heard someoneweeping. He slithered out and sawthe beautiful Tasneem. Heswallowed the makgabe andTasneem whole. Fortunately for her, the snake didnot like the taste of the makgabe.He spat it and Tasneem out. Theylay on the river bank, covered withslime from the snake's stomach.This slime smelled very bad. The smelly Tasneem put on hersmelly makgabe and ran home toher parents.She sang ...Mother, open the door for me, I am smelling;Mother, open the door for me, I am smelling,I am smelling very bad.The mother heard Tasneem's song and ran out of the house.She sang back to the girl:Go away, you are smelling,Go away, you are smelling,Go away, you are smelling very bad. Tasneem was very upset.She ran off to the house of her auntand uncle.They heard her singing ...Open the door for me, I am smelling;Open the door for me, I am smelling,I am smelling very bad.They ran out of their house. They sang back:Go away, you are smelling,Go away, you are smelling,Go away, you are smelling very bad. Tasneem had only hergrandmother's house to go to. Herheart was heavy. She thoughtnobody wanted to look after a badsmelling girl. But she was wrong. Hergrandmother did not send her away.She washed Tasneem, and hermakgabe, making everything smellsweetly. Tasneem stayed with hergrandmother for many years.One day the son of a very rich chiefasked Tasneem to marry him. Tasneem's parents heard about themarriage and asked her to comeback to live in their house. Tasneem remembered how she hadsmelled so bad.She told them that she would nevergo back to their house."Parents must love their children,"she said, "even if their childrensmell very bad." Instead Tasneem invited hergrandmother to come and live withher in the house of this rich chiefand his son. The grandmother was very happy, and very comfortable, and very important.

A mother went to attend to her child who fell in the bath room. A monkey came into the kitchen. It ate some mangoes. When the mother returned she noticed some mangoes are missing. She asked her child, "did you eat the mangoes? " . She ran out and saw the monkey. Then she realized it is not her child who ate, it is the monkey.

In a zoo, there were different animals and lion was the head of all the animals. The Lion said, I can do many things than others. Then all animals got angry and called up for a running race to see who is fastest and fit to be a king. Curator also came as participant and told he can run faster than other animals. Next day they kept a running race and animals started to run towards winning post. The first animal which reached winning post is Rhino, which is fit to be a king of zoo.

"No Nomvula, don't play withwater. It is so scarce!""But it's hot, Mama! I feel likegetting into this water. I want tobe cool." "No, Nomvula. Don't play withwater. Water is scarce.""But it's hot, Mama, I'm thirsty.I'd like to drink cold water." It is raining. There is going to bea lot of water. Now I can't play –I wish it could be hot. Look at the vegetables. Theyare growing and becominggreen.Look! The bowls and bucketsare overflowing with water. It has stopped raining. Now wecan play!Look how beautiful everythingis after the rain. The sky is clearand blue. Trees and grass aregreen, and the plants areflowering. Oh no! There the rain is again!When are we going to play? Oh no, me! I'm going to play,even if it's raining! Oh it's solovely to play in the rain.Chapha chapha chapha!Imanz'ilokhwe yam!Imanz'ilokhwe yam!Chapha chapha chapha!Zimanz'iinwele zam!Zimanz'iinwele zam! Nomvula, you don't want tolisten, my child. Come closer,let me dry and comb your hair.Chapha chapha chapha!Zimanz'iinwele zakho!Zimanz'iinwele zakho!

This is the story of Keeper and his nursery for orphaned animals. Last month was a busy month at the nursery. The first one to arrive at the nursery was one-year old Nomsa. She was thin and sad. But soon, Nomsa got stronger. She began to play with the other animals. On another day that month, a helicopter landed at the nursery. In the helicopter was a small elephant under a big blanket. Her name was Ndiwa. Ndiwa was five days old. Keeper fed Ndiwa with a bottle. One night, everybody was woken up by the arrival of Ambia, a giraffe. Ambia was five months' old. She was weak after her long journey. Because of her long neck, Keeper held the bottle high to feed Ambia. The last orphans to arrive that month were three hungry cubs. Their names were Kopi, Kepi and Keji. Keeper and his helpers love all of the animals, even the naughty ones. The people at the nursery work hard. They hope that one day the orphans can look after themselves. Then these animals can return to the wild.

one day when aunty was cooking , monkey came into the kitchen through the window and wanted to eat the mangoes kept in the kitchen. And the monkey pushed all the vessels in the kitchen and scared the aunty. And the child was crying hearing loud noises and aunty immediately went and helped the crying child, by then monkey ate the mangoes and left the kitchen happily.Aunty cleaned the kitchen and put the child to sleep and kept a stick near the kitchen window so that money doesn't come again.

Once upon a time, there was an old woman who lived with her three grandchildren. Every morning they all went to work in the field. But one day, one of the girls said, "Grandmother, I don't feel well today." So the old woman sent the child home. When the girl got home, she saw that there was meat in the pot. She ate all the meat and then went to sleep. The old woman and two children were tired and hungry when they returned from the field.Grandmother prepared ugali for supper, to eat with the meat she had cooked early in the morning. She opened the pots to serve her grandchildren. When she opened the pot with the meat, it was empty! "Who ate the meat?" asked Grandmother, frowning. But all three grandchildren shook their heads."Not me," each one said. So their grandmother tied a rope across the river. She told each of them to walk on the rope as they sang a song."The one that ate the meat will fall into the river, and learn to tell the truth," Grandmother said to the children. The first granddaughter walked quickly across the river, singing the song.The song went like this:_If am the one who ate the meat__May the rope break and drop me in the lake__Let me fall deep into the lake__May the rope break and drop me in the lake_ The other two grandchildren began to argue with each other. The girl said to the boy, "You go next." The boy replied, "No, you go next!" The granddaughter who ate the meat was scared and shivering. As she stepped forward to walk on the rope, she slipped and fell into the river. "Help! Help!" shouted the girl.Grandmother said to the other two, "She is guilty, but we must help her." Together they pulled the frightened girl out of the river.Since that day, the old woman's grandchildren have always told the truth.

One day monkey came to my home, disturbed the things and ate all the eatables, I am not there in home at that time, once I reached I sent out the monkey back.

There was a rich man who looked for a wife for a long time.When he married, he had a big ceremony that was blessed by the elders. After years of marriage, the man and woman began to worry because they did not have a child.The woman prayed for a child again and again. But she still did not become pregnant. One day, tired of waiting, she said, "Devil, if you give me a child, I will make a beautiful scarf for you."The following month, she became pregnant. She was happy and made the scarf which she had promised. The woman gave birth to a baby boy. Everybody rejoiced with her.She wanted to give the scarf to the devil but realised that she did not know how to find him. So she visited an elder and asked him for advice. The elder said, "To find the devil, go near the church. You will find two men standing before a wise man. These two have been fighting. The one who refuses to reconcile and leaves in anger is the devil! Follow him and give him this scarf." The woman went near the church. She saw two men standing before a wise man.The wise man said, "Enough! It's time to forgive each other from the heart."One of the men bent forward to ask for forgiveness. The other one refused and walked away. The woman called after him, "Wait! I have something for you." She offered him the scarf.The angry man asked, "What is this?"The woman answered, "It is your present." He replied, "I do not understand why you are giving me this present." The woman told him the story. She said, "You are the man who refused to apologise. That means you are the devil."She stretched out her hand to give him the scarf. This man ran back to the church. He knelt down in front of the other man and said to him, "I forgive you. Forgive me too."The other man also knelt. They hugged each other. The woman continues to search for the devil.Make sure the scarf does not belong to you!

There is a Honey Bee. One day it is flying in the sky and found some plants around. Bee collected the honey from different flowers. It keeps flying and collected more honey. Group of Bees also followed her and did the same thing. Finally we get the honey from Bees.

Ben keeps animals. This is a cow. This is a goat. This is a horse. This is a pig. This is a hen. This is a dog. The farmer is carryingmilk.

There was a small monkey in a village. He was very mischievous and used to trouble the villagers. One day he was very hungry and had nothing to eat. So he decided to enter a house and get food from there. He saw a window open in a kitchen and went inside. The women in the house got scared seeing the monkey and ran away. He broke all the food boxes and ate it all. After eating the food he ran away.

Once upon a time there was a Lion called Ramu. He had blue eyes. He lived in a forest called Chris. In the forest there lived many animals like the deer, zebra, mokey, tiger, fox, cheetah, giraffe and snake. Hoggy, the tiger was his best friend. One day Ramu and Hoggy went to the river to drink water. In the river there were many fish. The fish asked Ramu "what are you doing here?". Ramu replied " I came to drink water". Ramu and Hoggy drank the water and went home.

One day, a goat went out in the bush, and wandered aroundhappily. But then she got lost! Suddenly, she met a wolf! The wolf came up to her, and helooked very hungry. The goat said: Mr. Wolf, I know you want to eat me. But Iwould like to die happy! The wolf asked thegoat: What do youmean? Die happy?How? The goat answered: If Ihave to die, I would liketo die dancing! Then the wolf took hisguitar. He sat down andstarted playing it. And the goat starteddancing, though shewas still a little bitworried. Near that place, there were dogs. They came to see whatwas happening. Now that wolf was afraid of dogs. So he turned and ranaway! And the goat kept ondancing, because nowshe was free from thewolf!

Once up on a time, a man had twogoats, he used to keep them in agoats house and shut the doorevery evening.In the morning he opened themand took them to graze.He used to tether them wherethere was no enough grass. As such they never got satisfied.One night, the goats discussed howto open the and get out to go andfind what to eat.One goat found a way of openingthe door. They went out and atepotato vines belonging to thathome. After eating they went backto the house and shut the door. In the morning the man, discoveredthat his vines had been eaten bysome animals, he could notsuspect his neighbors goats.In the night, the goats opened andate the vines. The following morning the manfound the vines eaten, hequarreled and quarreled, heplanned to be checking on hisvines at night.In the middle of the night, hecame out with a spear, he tip toedtowards the goats, aimed andthrew the spear. One goat was speared and they allran away, the man entered thehouse.In the morning he went to checkfor what he had speared, only tofind out that he had speared hisown goat.He was very sorry about theincident.

One day teacher was absent. All the naughty students were playing in the class. One of the student writing on the board and he said all the students come here. That boy teaching a lesson and all the students enjoying the day.

What I do on the day of Diwali:Hurrraayy its holiday...I'll wake up early in the morning to take head bath and wear new clothes.I do Lakshmi Pooja along with my mother and have sweets and savouries.Evening I'll help my family members in lightning diyas and decorate around my house.Next I'll fire all my crackers along with my siblings.Once I am done with my crackers I'll go to my friend's/neighbor's house and again have fun there too.

Once upon a time in a mountainousAfrican village there lived a famousblacksmith.The villagers called him Ratshipi the man of iron and steel. Ratshipi was known by everyone inthe village.They went to his shop everymorning to watch him work.He seemed to be able to makeanything with his iron and steel. Kgosi Mogale, the village chief,heard about Ratshipi's work.He sent his servants to bringRatshipi to the palace. Ratshipi was happy to hear thatKgosi Mogale wanted to see him."I will be very happy to work for thechief," he said. So Ratshipi went to the palace."Ratshipi, I have heard about yourgood work," said Kgosi Mogale."I want you to do a very specialtask." "With your iron and steel, I wantyou to build a man who can walk,cry real tears and bleed real humanblood.""Impossible!" thought Ratshipi. Butno one could say no to the king inthis village. Ratshipi could not sleep that night.How was he going to do thisimpossible task?He was very scared and veryworried. Suddenly Ratshipi remembered awise old man Rapule. Perhaps hecould help.But where was Rapule? He haddisappeared from the village.People said that it was because hehad displeased the chief. The next morning Ratshipi did notgo to his shop.He went up the mountains to think.While walking there, he saw an oldman sitting under a tree. It was old Rapule!"I am so pleased to see you," saidRatshipi."I have a big problem."He told Old Rapule the whole story.Old Rapule thought carefully, andthen he said... "Tell the chief that you will need athousand buckets full of tears and athousand African pots full of hair.With the water, you will makeblood. With the hair, you will makea fire to strengthen the steel man.""Thank you, thank you!" Ratshipisaid, running back to the palace. Ratshipi said, "Kgosi Mogale, to dowhat you ask, I will need two things.A thousand buckets full of tears;and a thousand African pots filledwith hair from the heads of thevillagers."Kgosi Mogale agreed. He asked hisheadmen to tell the villagers. Cries were heard from every cornerof the village. Young and old peoplecried day and night to fill athousand buckets with tears.Every villager's head was shavedoff and thrown into the pots.But the tears and hair of all thevillagers were not enough to fill thebuckets and pots. Eventually Kgosi Mogale gave upand called Ratshipi back to thepalace."Ratshipi, you are a wise man, thewisest in the village," said KgosiMogale. "Will you do me the honourof being my chief headman?"Ratshipi smiled. "Only if you let old Rapule comeback to the village," he replied.So Ratshipi became chief headman.And he and old Rapule were theadvisors of Kgosi Mogale.

They told me the big black Lab's name was Reggie, as I looked at him lying in his pen.. The shelter was clean, no-kill, and the people really friendly. I'd only been in the area for six months, but everywhere I went in the small college town, people were welcoming and open. Everyone waves when you pass them on the street.But something was still missing as I attempted to settle in to my new life here, and I thought a dog couldn't hurt. Give me someone to talk to. And I had just seen Reggie's advertisement on the local news. The shelter said they had received numerous calls right after, but they said the people who had come down to see him just didn't look like “Lab people,” whatever that meant. They must've thought I did.But at first, I thought the shelter had misjudged me in giving me Reggie and his things, which consisted of a dog pad, bag of toys almost all of which were brand new tennis balls, his dishes, and a sealed letter from his previous owner. See, Reggie and I didn't really hit it off when we got home. We struggled for two weeks (which is how long the shelter told me to give him to adjust to his new home). Maybe it was the fact that I was trying to adjust, too. Maybe we were too much alike.For some reason, his stuff (except for the tennis balls — he wouldn't go anywhere without two stuffed in his mouth) got tossed in with all of my other unpacked boxes.I guess I didn't really think he'd need all his old stuff, that I'd get him new things once he settled in. But it became pretty clear pretty soon that he wasn't going to.I tried the normal commands the shelter told me he knew, ones like “sit” and “stay” and “come” and “heel,” and he'd follow them – when he felt like it.He never really seemed to listen when I called his name — sure, he'd look in my direction after the fourth or fifth time I said it, but then he'd just go back to doing whatever.When I'd ask again, you could almost see him sigh and then grudgingly obey.This just wasn't going to work. He chewed a couple shoes and some unpacked boxes.I was a little too stern with him and he resented it, I could tell. The friction got so bad that I couldn't wait for the two weeks to be up, and when it was, I was in full-on search mode for my cell phone amid all of my unpacked stuff. I remembered leaving it on the stack of boxes for the guest room, but I also mumbled, rather cynically, that the “damn dog probably hid it on me.”Finally I found it, but before I could punch up the shelter's number, I also found his pad and other toys from the shelter...I tossed the pad in Reggie'sdirection and he snuffed it and wagged, some of the most enthusiasm I'd seen since bringing him home. But then I called, “Hey, Reggie, you like that? Come here and I'll give you a treat.” Instead, he sort of glanced in my direction — maybe “glared” is more accurate — and then gave a discontented sigh and flopped down .... with his back to me.Well, that's not going to do it either, I thought. And I punched the shelter phone number. But I hung up when I saw the sealed envelope. I had completely forgotten about that, too.“Okay, Reggie,” I said out loud, “let's see if your previous owner has any advice.”____________ _________ _________ _________To Whoever Gets My Dog:Well, I can't say that I'm happy you're reading this, a letter I told the shelter could only be opened by Reggie's new owner. I'm not even happy writing it. If you're reading this, it means I just got back from my last car ride with my Lab after dropping him off at the shelter. He knew something was different.I have packed up his pad and toys before and set them by the back door before a trip, but this time... it's like he knew something was wrong. And something is wrong...which is why I have to try to make it right.So let me tell you about my Lab in the hopes that it will help you bond with him and he with you.First, he loves tennis balls. The more the merrier. Sometimes I think he's partsquirrel, the way he hordes them. He usually always has two in his mouth, and he tries to get a third in there. Hasn't done it yet. Doesn't matter where you throw them, he'll bound after it, so be careful – really don't do it by any roads. I made that mistake once, and it almost cost him dearly.Next, commands. The shelter staff probably already told you, but I'll go over them again: Reggie knows the obvious ones — “sit,” “stay,” “come,” “heel.” He knows hand signals: “back” to turn around and go back when you put your hand straight up; and “over” if you put your hand out right or left. “Shake” for shaking water off, and “paw” for a high-five. He does “down” when he feels like lying down — I bet you could work on that with him some more. He knows “ball” and “food” and “bone” and “treat” like nobody's business. Nothing opens his ears like little pieces of hot dog. I trained Reggie with small food treats.Feeding schedule: twice a day, once about seven in the morning, and again at six in the evening. Regular store-bought stuff; the shelter has the brand.He's up on his shots. Call the clinic on 9th Street and update his info with yours; they'll make sure to send you reminders for when he's due. Be forewarned: Reggie hates the vet.Good luck getting him in the car. I don't know how he knows when it's time to go to the vet, but he knows.Finally, give him some time. I've never been married, so it's only been Reggie and me for his whole life. He's gone everywhere with me, so please include him on your daily car rides if you can. He sits well in the backseat, and he doesn't bark or complain. He just loves to be around people, and me most especially. Which means that this transition is going to be hard, with him going to live with someone new.And that's why I need to share one more bit of info with you....His name's not Reggie. I don't know what made me do it, but when I dropped him off at the shelter, I told them his name was Reggie.He's a smart dog, he'll get used to it and will respond to it, of that I have no doubt. But I just couldn't bear to give them his real name. For me to do that, it seemed so final, that handing him over to the shelter was as good as me admitting that I'd never see him again. And if I end up coming back, getting him, and tearing up this letter, it means everything's fine. But if someone else is reading it, well ... well it means that his new owner should know his real name. It'll help you bond with him. Who knows, maybe you'll even notice a change in his demeanor if he's been giving you problems. even though, frankly, I'm just writing it for my dog. I couldn't imagine if I was writing it for a wife and kids and family ... but still, Tank has been my family for the last six years, almost as long as the Army has been my family. His real name is “Tank”, because that is what I drive.Again, if you're reading this and you're from the area, maybe my name has been on the news. I told the shelter that they couldn't make “Reggie” available for adoption until they received word from my company commander. See, my parents are gone, I have no siblings, no one I could've left Tank with ... and it was my only real request of the Army upon my deployment to Iraq , that they make one phone call.. the shelter ... in the “event” ... to tell them that Tank could be put up for adoption. Luckily, my colonel is a dog guy, too, and he knew where my platoon was headed. He said he'd do it personally. And if you're reading this, then he made good on his word.Well, this letter is getting downright depressing.And now I hope and pray that you make him part of your family and that he will adjust and come to love you the same way he loved me.That unconditional love from a dog is what I take with me to Iraq as an inspiration to do something selfless, to protect innocent people from thosewho would do terrible things ... and to keep those terrible people from coming over here. If I have to give up Tank in order to do it, I am glad to have done so. He is my example of service and of love. I hope I honored him by my service to my country and comrades.All right, that's enough. I deploy this evening and have to drop this letter off at the shelter. I don't think I'll say another good-bye to Tank, though. I cried too much the first time. Maybe I'll peek in on him and see if he finally got that third tennis ball in his mouth.Good luck with Tank. Give him a good home, and give him an extra kiss goodnight – every night – from me.

Mr Shabangu was the best baker intown. Every morning he woke up atfour o'clock to mix and knead thedough for his famous buns, cakesand biscuits. By eight o'clock the people of thetown were walking past the bakeryon their way to work and school. Bythis time the cakes and buns werealmost cooked, and the mostdelicious smells wafted out of thebakery's windows. Many of the people went into thebakery to buy their breakfast. MrShabangu smiled happily at themas he passed them the fresh, tastycinnamon buns and warm, goldenbiscuits that were so famous in thetown. But other people were not so lucky.Because they had so little money,the poorer people of the town couldhardly ever afford to buy any of thedelicious buns, cakes and biscuits.All they could do was enjoy thelovely smells that drifted out of thebakery windows.When Mr Shabangu noticed thesepeople sniffing the air near hisbakery, he said angrily, 'How darethey sniff my delicious smells!' 'Those are MY smells. I made them, so they belong to me! If people want to smell mywonderful smells, they should pay for them!' He huffed and puffed and wiped the sweatfrom his brow, before turning back the oven to bake some bread and rolls for his lunchtimecustomers. One old woman especially loved thesmells that drifted out of the bakerywindow every morning. This was MaShange who slept on a bench in thepark every night. A few weeks before, a kind personhad given her the money to buyherself a cinnamon bun. She hadtaken the bun back to the park andate it very slowly, licking her lipsand sharing the last crumbs withthe birds. After that, although the old womandidn't have enough money to buybreakfast, she longed for thedelicious bun again. So everymorning she walked slowly past MrShabangu's bakery, sniffing the airand smiling blissfully at the mouthwatering smell. Ma Shange's new habit made thebaker very angry. As each day wentby, he grew angrier and angrierwith her.Finally, one winter morning when hewas in an especially bad mood, hestormed out of his bakery andgrabbed the old woman by the arm.'How dare you steal my smells!' heshouted. 'You're nothing but a smellthief!' He wiped his hands on anapron, then pulled it off and threw itback into the bakery. 'This is the last day this cheekywoman will steal my smells!' heshouted. And with these words, hedragged Ma Shange off to the courtto see judge Ngwenya.The judge was sitting down at hishuge, shiny desk when the angrybaker stormed in, dragging thequivering and confused Ma Shangewith him. 'Good morning,' said the judge in his deep voice.'Sir,' said Mr Shabangu furiously, 'I demand justice! I wish to lay a complaint against thiswoman. Every day for the last three weeks, she has walked past my bakery early in themorning when my delicious smells are at their best, and stolen them. I demand that shepays for those smells!' And with these words, he draggedMa Shange off to the court to seejudge Ngwenya.The judge was sitting down at hishuge, shiny desk when the angrybaker stormed in, dragging thequivering and confused Ma Shangewith him. 'Good morning,' said the judge inhis deep voice.'Sir,' said Mr Shabangu furiously, 'Idemand justice! I wish to lay acomplaint against this woman.Every day for the last three weeks,she has walked past my bakeryearly in the morning when mydelicious smells are at their best,and stolen them. The judge scratched his big, bald head for a moment. Then he cleared his throat. 'Fairenough,' he said to the baker. 'Justice will be done.' He turned to Ma Shange. 'How muchmoney do you have on you, Madam?' he asked. 'Only two rands,' stammered Ma Shange.'Well,' said the judge, hand it to me, please.' Meekly,Ma Shange reached into the pocket of her tatty oldcardigan and pulled out two one rand coins. Shehanded them to the judge. He took them, thankingher politely. Then he shook the coins in his big fist, so that theymade a clinking sound. 'This is my judgement,' hesaid to the baker. 'The punishment must fit thecrime. Therefore the sound of Ma Shange's money isthe payment you will get for the smells she stole.And now I wish you a good day.'The baker looked thoughtful. Then, realising howunreasonable he had been, he turned slowly andwalked out of the room. The judge smiled kindly at Ma Shange, and handedher back her money.'Now, Madam, he said pulling a brown paper bagfrom his briefcase, would you care to join me forbreakfast? These buns are still warm, I bought themonly half an hour ago.'

Granny sits out in the verandah for long. She wants her bird friend to sing a song. Her old fist is closed with gaps. I can see that she holds some grains in a wrap."Who is your bird friend?" I ask."Oh! It is the sparrow but finding one is such a task."With this Granny goes into the past when the sparrows would come in so fast.She mutters to herself, "Yes! They would eat from my little palm and chirped till I played and slept in the calm. Those times when the birds and humans enjoyed a bond. Those little brown birds would often flutter in our pond. They would also make their homes in our roshandans, sing in the fields and fly across the maidan."Chirp! Chirp! came the sound of Granny's long lost friend. Granny sprang up as her joy knew no end."Oh! Come! come to see what I have in my hand. You were in my wish list that I scribbled on the sand."God is so kind and a great messenger too. He sent the little bird to make my Granny's wish come true.

Once upon a time long ago, whenthere were no people, God lookeddown at the beautiful world he hadmade.He thought I must have someone tolook after my creation. The lion roared, "I am the king ofthe jungle, I can look after theworld." The elephant trumpeted loudly, "MyLord, you have made me so big andmajestic. Surely I am right for thejob." The whale looked up at the sky and spouted afountain of water, "Do they know how to swim andlook after the fish, the reefs, the coral and millions oftiny sea animals?""I can look after the oceans. I can also keep my headabove water and see what is going on on the land. Iam so LARGE, no one will dare to do anythingagainst your will." The shark thought his sharp teethwere all that were needed to do thejob. The eagle laughed, "These animalscan only look after those on land,while the whale and the shark canonly see the water animals. But Ifly, I see the sky, land and water. Iam the only one fit to be the keeperof the world." God listened carefully to the animals, to the fish andthe birds."I will create man," he said. The animals allwondered, what was this thing called "man".What colour, with feathers or fur, or scales?Will he run like the lion? Swim like a fish?Fly high like the eagle? The sun had set and it was night. He wrappedhimself in the night sky, put the twinkle of stars intothe eyes and used the black clouds for hair. He alsoput pieces of the moon in the nails and the shine offar away stars in the teeth.So the first man and woman were created with shinyblack skins like the night. Soon the night faded and it wasmorning.God covered himself in the whitemorning light, took the blue sky forthe eyes, the gold of the sun hespun into hair, and before him stooda man and woman with white skins,blue eyes and golden hair. Now the morning had turned intoafternoon. The sun was very bright,so he pulled the yellow light, andthe deep black shadow of theafternoon and made a man andwoman with yellow skins, black hairand eyes that slanted to look intothe sun. It was now evening, the sky had become dusky and afew stars had also appeared in the sky.God looked down and saw the beautiful rich brown ofthe earth and the dusk of the sky for the skin. Theblack colour of the night was for the hair and he usedthe sparkle of stars for the eyes.Before him stood a man and woman with brownskins, black hair and eyes. The animals all looked in wonder atthe strange creature who stood ontwo legs, with naked skin, with nofur or feathers or even scales.The lion looked down his kinglynose and roared, "I can outrun themand with a swipe of my paw I cankill them, sorry for saying so." The zebra suggested, "Some stripeswould have improved their look."The leopard said, "A few spots."The elephant trumpeted, "Surelygrey would have been a bettercolour?" The shark looked at their teeth and smiled showinghis sharp teeth. "Ah! No fins, how will they swim?And they are going to be the keeper. Ha! Ha! Ha!"The fish, big and small, laughed as they dived intothe deep water leaving a trail of bubbles of laughter. God smiled kindly, "You see, to survive, man willhave to look after the animals, the oceans with alltheir life, the plants, from the tiniest to the largesttrees.""The day he starts destroying the world with hisgreed, he will be destroyed."The animals, the fish and the birds bowed theirheads and hoped they would be safe.So let us, YOU and I, look after this wonderful world.

Manya was getting ready for a party. But she did'nt know what to wear. She tried every t-shirt and pant she had. She still could not find the perfect dress. She tried her new frock and her t-shirt. She felt it was not nice. She tried on a t-shirt and a pant. They were too loose. She tried on her t-shirt with a poncho tied around her hip. Still not perfect. She took a green t-shirt and a pant. But they were too tight. She tried on her frock. But it was too long. Manya was tired. She did'nt know what to wear. She suddenly stared out of her window, her eyes falling in her chudidhar. At first , she did'nt think about the dress. She wore the dress to the party. Manya had finally found the perfect dress.

Monday, it used forvillage meetings Tuesday, it is meeting venue forpoliticians. Wednesday, it is a play ground forchildren. Thursday, it is used as a villagelocal court. Friday, it acts as a classfor girls by teacherNabune. Saturday, it is used as a drinkingjoint for the elders only. Sunday, people gather there forprayers. Ee..ee, what blessed mango tree

Didi walks past a deserted area where she sees some poor children. While sleeping, she thinks about educating the children and raising them as her own. She brings the children home and raises them. The next day, she teaches the children how to read. After the day was over, she tucked them into bed. Didi also taught them how to draw and write. After a few years, Didi got a job. So after the children came back from school, they had to study on their own. There was an earthquack and the children had to move! The children had to set up their own house in the mountain. After a few years, the children went back to the village. It was rebuilt and Didi had come back! Didi went back to teaching the kids. She will always be remembered.

Once upon a time there was a veryrich man called Mpunzi. He had awife and one daughter calledNosisa. Mpunzi wanted a son, buthe and his wife could not have anymore children. Mpunzi blamed hiswife for not giving him a son. Hebullied his wife and treated her likea child. One day Mpunzi was very angry andhe hit his wife with a stick. She ranaway back to her family. She leftwith a sad heart because Mpunzidid not let her take Nosisa with her.Mpunzi bullied his daughter in thesame way he bullied his wife.Nosisa lived a very sad life. Mpunzi decided to marry anotherwife. He hoped that the new wifewould give him a baby boy.Nosisa's life became even moredifficult when her father marriedagain. Mpunzi scolded her all thetime and made her serve the newwife. Nosisa worked like a slave. Mpunzi was very proud of his cattle. He used to sit outside hishomestead and watch his cattle grazing in the field. He felt verysatisfied with his wealth.Mpunzi's many servants cleaned around the homestead, andlooked after his goats, cattle and sheep. They milked the cows forfresh milk that Mpunzi sold to other villagers.  Mpunzi loved his new wife verymuch. He treated her like a queen.She sat inside her hut all day andgave orders to Nosisa and theservants. Nosisa woke up earlyevery day to make tea for herstepmother. She cleaned her hutand cooked for her, but herstepmother always complained thather food was cold, her tea wasweak, and her hut was not clean. One day Mpunzi became very angry at Nosisa. Hescolded her and hit her with a stick. Nosisa ran off tothe river where she sat and cried the wholeafternoon.Suddenly she heard a voice coming out of the river.She looked up and saw a big fish. The voice wascoming from the fish. Nosisa was so shocked shealmost ran away, but the fish stopped her. "Pleasedon't run away my daughter, I am your mother. Ihave changed myself into a fish so that your fatherdoes not know it's me." "What is the matter?" asked thefish. Nosisa told the fish everythingabout her sad life. "Don't worry mygirl. I will bring you food every day,"said the fish. The fish gave freshvegetables to Nosisa. She had afeast. When she looked up the fishwas gone. That day Nosisa wenthome smiling. She would not haveto go to bed without food as usual. Nosisa went to the river every day. In the morningshe woke up as usual and did her chores around thehouse. At midday, she went to the river. She calledout every time, and every time the fish would appearwith delicious food. Nosisa became happier andhappier. She could talk to the fish about anything.She started to regain her health. Her skin wasglowing and she was a happy child. Nosisa visited the fish every day until her stepmotherbecame suspicious. Nosisa had gained weight andshe was glowing. "Something is going on at the river,I must find out what it is," thought the stepmother.One afternoon she followed Nosisa to the river. Shesaw Nosisa talking to the fish, and getting deliciousfood. Nosisa's secret was out. "I have to dosomething about this fish," said the stepmother. In the evening, Mpunzi came back from the fields. Hefound his new wife crying in her hut. "What is wrongmy lovely wife," asked Mpunzi."I went to a traditional doctor," said the wife. "Hetold me that the only way for me to give you a son isto eat the biggest fish that lives in this nearby river,"she said. "Will you catch the fish for me tonight?"pleaded the woman."I will do anything for you my beautiful wife," saidMpunzi. Mpunzi set off to the river before it was too dark. Hetook his servants to help him find the biggest fish inthat river. They searched and searched andeventually Mpunzi caught the biggest fish. He put itin a bag and went home with it. When he got to thehouse, there was a good hot fire ready to cook thefish."I will make the best meal ever for us," said thewoman to Mpunzi. "You are the bravest andstrongest man I know."Mpunzi was very pleased with himself. That night Mpunzi and his wife went to bed happyafter their delicious meal. They left the bones on thetable for Nosisa to clean in the morning.When Nosisa brought coffee into their hut in themorning they were still sleeping. "This is verystrange," she thought to herself. "My father usuallywakes up very early in the morning to go to thefields. I wonder why he is still sleeping." "Anyway, now I can run to the river for a nicebreakfast," she thought. Nosisa ran to the river.When she got there she called out to the fish, andshe called again and again. The fish never came.Nosisa started to cry. She did not know what hadhappened to the fish.While she was crying a bird came to sit next to herand told her what had happened. She cried harderthinking that her mother had been caught and eaten. The bird told her to collect the fish bones from thetable and throw them back into the river. If she didthat the fish would come back to life. The bird alsotold her to let her father and stepmother sleep andwake them up only at midday. Nosisa did as she wastold. She ran back home and walked quietly into herfather's hut. They were still fast asleep. She took thebones, put them inside a bag and threw them backinto the river. Nosisa ran back home and just before midday shewoke her father and stepmother. She could hardlyrecognise them. They looked old and grey and frail.They were too old to scold her. They were too weakto hit her. They were too tired to look after thehomestead.So, Nosisa took over the homestead and her father'swealth. She called all the servants and told themwhat had happened. They prepared a feast and therewas peace at the homestead from that day on.

Shruti is a smart girl. She wins all the competitions she takes part in. Everybody wonders how she does it. They want to know her secret! Miss Shalini is Shruti's favorite teacher. Shruti invites Miss Shalini to stay at her place for a few days.Miss agrees because she also wants to know Shruti's secret. Miss Shalini brings with her a robot camera which follows Shruti everywhere. There is a new competition coming up. A dance competition! On the day of the competition, everybody wakes up to find Shruti missing. "Where is she", they ask? They go and look for the robot camera. The camera shows Shruti practising a lot for the competition.On that day also, she has woken up early to practice. “Ah so that's where she has been!”, says, Miss Shalini.Miss Shalini is happy with her hard work. Shruti wins the dance competition! Miss Shalini hugs Shruti and says “well done!” Miss Shalini announces to everyone- "Practice makes a person perfect. That's Shruti's secret to winning".

It is dry. The sun is hot. It is windy. It is cloudy. It is cold. It is raining. There is thunder. I see a rainbow.

My best friend lives with me. When I look in the mirror, she looks at me. When I am happy, she is too. When I am sad, she is too. Me and my friend play all day long until we are tired. We play in my dream when I am asleep. Me and my friend live together forever.

One day, Mr. Slothcame to visit. He said:I'm sleepy! I need agood branch for a bed! I'm quite good atclimbing.I know how to swing.But sleeping's myfavourite, favouritething. This branch lookslovely!I think I'll sleep here.And you? Don't youthink that's a splendididea? Oh no, Mr. Sloth! Agiraffe's eating there!He might think you'relunch and start nibblingyour hair! This branch lookslovely!I think I'll sleep here.And you? Don't youthink that's a splendididea? Oh no, Mr. Sloth!There'sa beehive right there!You'll never get sleepwith those beeseverywhere! This branch lookslovely!I think I'll sleep here.And you? Don't youthink that's a splendididea? Oh no, Mr. Sloth, that'sa snake over there!Not a branch! Poor oldsnake. You gave himquite a scare. This branch lookslovely!I think I'll sleep here.And you? Don't youthink that's a splendididea? Oh no, Mr. Sloth!There'sa bird squawking there!You'll never get sleepwith that noise in theair! Try climb one morebranch, Mr. Sloth! theyall said.And that branch wasjust the right one for hisbed. The bird and the snake,the giraffe and eachbeewere happy to have Mr.Sloth in their tree.

A child was born to the Alimathi family. It was a boy. His father said "The boy will take my place of selling my goods". But his grandfather shook his head and said. "He will teach yoga like me". His grandmother said. "He will become a tailor. His mother said "He will become a cook."Anand, that was the boy's name, he grew up and became 6 years. On annual day, he told a speech. In that speech, he mentioned what he wanted to become when he grew up. He said "I want to be a pilot when I grow up". His parents said "If you want to become a pilot then follow your dreams".

Once upon a time, theanimals decided tohave a party. But it wasnot for all of them. Itwas only for theanimals that had horns. The rabbit was gettingready for the party. Butthen he found out thatthe party was not foreveryone. It was just foranimals with horns. The rabbit wentsomewhere and gotsome horns. Then heput them on his headand went to the party. During the party therabbit ate and drankand danced. This made him tiredand he fell down in thesun. But while therabbit was sleeping, thehorns fell off! Then all the animalsdiscovered that therabbit was not the kindof animal they wanted.So they pulled his earstill they got bigger andbigger. Then they ran away.And that's the reasonwhy rabbits have bigears!

Andiswa watched the boys play soccer. She wished that she could join them. She asked the coach if she can practise with them. The coach put his hands on his hips. "At this school, only boys are allowed to play soccer," he said. The boys told her to go play netball. They said that netball is for girls and soccer is for boys. Andiswa was upset. The next day, the school had a big soccer match. The coach was worried because his best player was sick and could not play. Andiswa ran to the coach and begged him to let her to play. The coach was not sure what to do. Then he decided that Andiswa could join the team. The game was tough. Nobody had scored a goal by half time. During the second half of the match one of the boys passed the ball to Andiswa. She moved very fast towards the goal post. She kicked the ball hard and scored a goal. The crowd went wild with joy. Since that day, girls were also allowed to play soccer at the school.

Tita is playing with her mother's saree. Her mother did'nt like it. So she scolded Tita. One day, she heard her mother was going to the neighbouring village. So she ironed all her clothes. Tita's mother praised her for that .

Long time ago, there were twoyoung men who lost their cows.They looked for the cows until itwas late. As it got dark, they saw a lightin a house.They agreed to go and ask for aplace to sleep. They went to the house andknocked.The door opened and they wentin.The young men didn't seeanyone. But they heard a voicegreeting them. The voice said, "I am a louse.Open the pot and have food.Open the earthenware pot anddrink amahewu." Then the louse put on its skinand went out. The young men ate, drank, andgave thanks.They left the house. As they left, they had a badthought.They said, "No, it couldn'thappen that we had food from alouse."Eventually they agreed to goback and crush the louse. They went back to the houseand crushed the louse.Suddenly the louse was gone,and the house disappeared!They found themselves outsidein the open.

Shambu the junior explorer was walking in a forest.He was going to a neighbouring village to meet his friend. He suddenly hears a tiny cry of pain.Shambu was confused. He thought" Oh no!I think someone small is hurt".He takes out his magnifying glass to find out. Shambu was correct. There sitting under a mushroom was a tiny man.The tiny man looked as if he was lost. Shambu asked the man what was the matter.The little man said that he had lost his way and it had rained heavily.Shambu said he would give the man shelter until the rain dried out. Shambu played and played with the man all day unti it was dark.Then the man and Shambu said their goodbyes and they were on their way.

### Hooja SinghHooja Singh was a intelligent man. He used to teach people in a village. He was invited to all the parties and meetings held in the palace. The king was very angry That Hooja was getting to know more than him.So the King held a competition that who ever could answer his questions would win half of the village. The competition was held in Bodhapur. Hooja was able to answer all the questions and thus won. ### Meenu's dance classIt was the first day of Meenu's dance class. But Meenu did'nt know how to dance. Meenu's mother told her to practise till she got how to dance. Meenu practised day and night until she was tired.On the day of the dance class, Meenu and her friends went to the class together. Mrs Tina the dance teacher was going to put on a performance. Meenu danced beautifully on the day of the performance, and Mrs Tina's dance won. ### Junior cookRohan always wanted to be a cook. One day, Sonaji the cook hired Rohan to cook jelabi's and chips with him as all the other cooks were on leave. Rohan got ready and went to Sonaji's shop.Sonaji was waiting there for him. Rohan was a little late but Sonaji did'nt worry. Sonaji told Rohan to make the chips and he will make the jelabi's. Rohan was a little confusedat first, but gotn how to make it. Rohan had become a cook. ### Dooli's secretIt was Dooli's first day at school. Dooli had a little secret that if anyone called her by her surname, everyone behind her would fall asleep. Only Dooli's parent's knew the secret. In class, the teacher called everyone by their surname. So when it was Dooli's turn, everyone behind her fell asleep.Dooli had to do a magic spell to wake them up. So after she did it everyone woke up. A few years passed and the magic spell wore off. Dooli rejoiced and lived a long life ### Diwali"Oh no!Diwali is tomorrow!" said Chameli. "I have to buy new dresses, decorate my house and make sweets. "Chameli's mother and father were going out Diwali shopping, and Chameli's relatives were coming home.Chameli did'nt know what to do. She quickly grabbed her clothes and started making sweets . She decorated the house and after her cousins came, they gasped to see the house. Chameli had done a good job. ### Leena's first day at the libraryLeena and her brother were going to the national library. In the morning, Leena asked her mother what is a library. Her mother told her that a library is a place where they keep books.When they reached, Leena went inside the library to chose a library book. She was so surprised to see so many books. It was Leena's best day. ### Bela's dreamBela was getting into bed. She dreamt that she was in outer space. Bela wanted to see space butterflies, sun cheese and astroid tofees.Bela was 4 years old and she had a sister who was 12 years old. Bela and Meena were going to outer space in their cardboard rocket. Then, Bela and Meena Were in the space feast, eating samosas. It was a perfect dream for Bela. ### My teacherMy teacher is kind and sweet. She teaches me everything. We sit under a tree and learn what she teaches, and then she gives me chocolate kisses.My teacher is Mrs Mekala Aunty. She is sometimes sweet and sometimes angry. She is selfcontroled and kind. How is your teacher!

Long, long ago there was a kingcalled Kayanja. He lived in a palacewith the queen and their daughter,princess Apenyo.Princess Apenyo was such abeautiful young woman that everyman wanted to marry her. But kingKayanja demanded a very highbride price for the princess. Near king Kayanja's palace lived achief called Aludah the Great. Hewas called "the Great" becauseeverybody in the neighbourhoodobeyed him. (He was very violent toanyone who disobeyed him!)Chief Aludah's wife had recentlydied of malaria and he wantedanother wife. So the fat old chief went to kingKayanja to offer bride wealth for theyoung princess.While the two men were discussingthe price, the maid Kakembooverheard their conversation. MaidKakembo was very close to princessApenyo. Chief Aludah agreed to give half ofhis wealth to king Kayanja,including a needle, which was alsopart of the bride price.Preparations were made in secretfor the wedding between chiefAludah and princess Apenyo. Theking knew that his daughter wouldnot be happy with this decision. One week before the royal weddingday, maid Kakembo approachedApenyo."My dear princess, your father hasorganised your wedding with ChiefAludah, and it will take place in oneweek," said Kakembo. Princess Apenyo was shocked andat first didn't know what to do. Thenshe thought, "I will never marrychief Aludah, that fat old man.Never! I must hurry to Trevor andsee what he can do before it's toolate."Trevor was princess Apenyo'sboyfriend. That night Apenyo crept out of thepalace. If her father discoveredwhere she was going he would bevery angry.She ran through the thick, darkforest over rocks and shrubs, untilshe finally reached her Trevor. Whenshe arrived at his house she wastired, hungry, and thirsty. "My love, why have you run all thislong distance alone and at such atime of night?" asked Trevor. Hefetched drinking water for her andallowed her to rest.Trevor could not settle down whilehe waited for Apenyo to talk. "My dear princess, what is theproblem?" asked Trevor.Apenyo breathed heavily and saidsadly, "My father wants to marryme off to chief Aludah the Great.But I can't marry that horrible man.Trevor, I want to marry you even ifyou are poor. I am ready to suffer. Ilove you." "But princess, I have nothing to payas your bride price, you know I'm apoor boy." cried Trevor.Apenyo replied, "I know, but it'sonly you I can get married to."She thought for a while and said,"Let's go to Kategga the boat manto sail us to the other side of theriver. That way we can escape andmy father will never find us." Back at the palace, king Kayanjahad discovered Princess Apenyo'sdisappearance and ordered hissubjects to search for hereverywhere in the village.The king's guards, soldiers, andeveryone else searched, but theycouldn't find Princess Apenyo.They went back to the King and toldhim Apenyo was nowhere to beseen. "Then go to the bush andsearch," King Kayanja ordered. Hewas very annoyed. As Princess Apenyo and Trevorhurried to the riverbank, darkclouds began gathering in the sky. Aheavy storm was coming. Kategga the boatman was mooringhis boat when the young coupleapproached him. Trevor askedKategga to row them across theriver.Kategga refused to accept,explaining that a heavy storm wasfast approaching, and it would betoo dangerous. Trevor insisted and explained toKategga why they must cross. Hethen put his hand deep in hispocket and took out a cowrie shellto give to Kategga.When Kategga heard their story andsaw the beautiful shell, he felt sorryfor them. He agreed to row themacross the river in spite of theweather. Kategga pulled the boat near thebank and told them to get in. Hethen picked his oars and beganrowing.When king Kayanja and chiefAludah reached the bank, they sawthe three people in the boat. Theyrealised that the young lovers hadescaped. Heavy winds rocked the boat andKategga could no longer control it.King Kayanja shouted: "Apenyo,please come back! I have forgivenyou and will never punish you orTrevor."But it was too late. The boat tippedover and the three people werethrown into the wild water. They alldrowned.After that day, everyone in kingKayanja's kingdom could marryanyone they wanted, rich or poor.

It is nearly break time at Siyafunda Primary School. The two spaza shop owners at the school are preparing lunch to sell to hungry children. In Mr Motaung's shop, the bread is cut and ready for making kotas. He carefully cuts out the soft middle of each quarter loaf. Then he puts polony and chips in the space inside.Motaung puts two spoonfuls of his wife's homemade atchar in each kota. He likes to boast that his kotas have atchar inside and atchar on top! In Mr Mkhize's shop, the chips are nearly ready, but he is still cutting his bread for kotas. He is worried because things are not going well with his shop. "It started well," thinks Mkhize. "But now I get fewer and fewer customers. At least I'm reducing some of my costs by cutting five kotas from a loaf." Jabu and Zodwa are buying lunch. Zodwa buys from Mr Mkhize. Jabu buys from Mr Motaung. He believes that Motaung's kota has got more chips and atchar than Mkhize's kota. The queue at Mr Motaung's shop is always longer. Zodwa waits for Jabu. Then the friends sit together in the shade to enjoy their kotas. Zodwa notices something that makes her stare and frown."What are you staring at?" asks Jabu."Your kota! It looks bigger than mine," says Zodwa. They both look very closely at their kotas. Sure enough, Jabu's is bigger. "Something is not right here," says Zodwa. "I wonder if this is the reason Mr Mkhize's shop is not busy anymore."Jabu thinks for a while and then he replies, "Well, I heard that some kids saw Mkhize cutting his bread into five pieces for kotas!" Nomsa overhears Jabu and Zodwa talking and she's curious. She asks them what's wrong with cutting the loaf into five pieces for kotas.Zodwa and Jabu reply together, "A kota is a quarter of a loaf!"Nomsa still looks confused, so Zodwa explains, "The loaf must be cut into four equal pieces. Otherwise, they are not quarters." Nomsa is cross because she also buys from Mr Mkhize. "So, he is stealing bread from us!" she says in a loud voice.Zodwa decides to go back to Mkhize's shop to complain.She marches off, holding her kota up in the air. Nomsa hurries behind her.Hungry Jabu looks longingly at his kota and sighs. Then he gets up to follow his friends. Mr Mkhize is disappointed when he sees that the children aren't new customers. "Oh, hello again kids," he mutters, "how can I help you?""Mr Mkhize, I asked you for a quarter and I paid you for a quarter. But this is not a quarter," says Zodwa, pointing at her kota. "I want the rest of my kota or my money back," she adds firmly. "Is it true Mr Mkhize? You've been cheating us!" cries Nomsa. A few children have followed them to the shop and are now listening to the fierce accusations.Mkhize waves his hands wildly. "What are you saying about me?" he protests. "I'm not like that! I want you to get out of my shop now!" Then Zodwa says quietly, "We will tell everyone what you are doing. It will spread like wildfire throughout the school. You will have to close your shop. No one will come and buy from you!"Mr Mkhize looks at the three children standing in front of him. Then he looks at the growing crowd outside his shop. "OK," he says eventually, "I will give you your money back."And also promise that you will cut each loaf into quarters for your kotas," speaks up Jabu.Mr Mkhize promises that he will. Then he clears his throat and says loud enough for everyone to hear, "I also promise that I will add more atchar and more chips to my kotas." Mr Mkhize did indeed add extra chips and atchaar to his kotas. Soon more children were buying from him, and his shop started doing well. He was even able to hire someone to help him. Now there is a healthy competition between Mr Mkhize and Mr Motaung, and everyone is happy.

Ruchi had a cat named Reena. Ruchi loved and cared for Reena so much that she would not let anyone touch Reena. Ruchi played with Reena day and night till they got tired. Ruchi fed Reena fish and milk. After a few years, Ruchi was sent to school. So when Ruchi was studying under a tree, Reena would sit on top of the tree and listen. One such day when Ruchi came back from school, Reena was gone. Ruchi searched the wholetown, but she was not there. Ruchi was heartbroken on that day. She pinned up missing posters all around the town. One day when Ruchi was drinking milk, she saw Reena running towards. At last, Ruchi had found her dream cat, Reena.



The night has come again and itis dark. After meals I go to bed with myyoung sister Anna. I am always scared becauseevery night I wet the bed. Whenever I dream, I suddenlywake up wet. I quickly change position andsleep in Anna's which is dry andwarm. In the morning, I wake up firstand leave Anna in bed. And when mother asks who wetthe bed, I loudly say it is Anna. So the next day mother decidesto sleep with Anna in her bed. Unfortunately, the same thinghappens and now there is noone to else to blame. Finally mother finds out thatAnna does not wet the bed but Ido.

Long time ago, in a Turkana village, people loved to dance the edonga dance. Every evening they gathered together and danced edonga. The whole region came to know of this village and its dancers. People from nearby villages also came to this village to dance. A stranger heard of the famous village. He sent his messenger to go there before him. When the messenger arrived, the villagers were afraid. They wondered who the stranger was, and why he had sent his messenger. The villagers prepared food and animals to be slaughtered. The villagers gathered and waited. They sat the whole day until evening. But the stranger did not arrive. That night, the villagers danced as usual until midnight. That night there were many dancers. Everybody in the village was excited. While they were dancing, the stranger arrived. Although he was a stranger, he looked just like the other villagers. They did not notice him at first. When it was the stranger's turn to dance, he joined the men. But his dancing was strange and different from the others. People were amused and began to laugh at the stranger. Some dancers fell down laughing. Some sat down, and others knelt laughing. The stranger did not like people laughing at him. He decided to curse them.He stopped dancing and everyone became a stone in the position they were in. Some were lying down, others standing, others sitting and kneeling. Then the stranger left the village.Since then, those stones remained there. At night they can be heard singing and dancing edonga.That is how we have the site of Namoratunga.

This is Ndalo. Ndalo likes to read books. This is Pendo. Pendo likes to eat carrots. Ndalo grazes Pendo after school. He gives fresh water to Pendo. Father gives grain to Pendo. He milks Pendo every day. Pendo gives a lot of milk. Father sells Pendo's milk. Ndalo drinks fresh milk every day. He says, "Thank you Pendo!"

Avanti was the zookeeper of Pitara zoo.There were many, many animals in Pitara, but Avanti's best friend was Ballu, the bear. Ballu was big, brown and strong.On his fourth birthday, Avanti organised a little party for Ballu. “Ballu, can you blow out all the candles at once?” Avanti asked.“Of course!” said Ballu. He filled his chest with air. He huffed and puffed and puffed and huffed and went “WHOOSH!” The blast of air blew the candles out. Then rising up, it crashed into the clouds in the sky. And all of a sudden, there was was a roar of thunder and it started to rain. “Hey, it's raining fish,” Avanti shouted.Ballu looked around with wonder. Then he picked up a huge basket and ran around collecting fish as they fell from the sky.Every time the basket filled, he dropped the fish in a little pond and ran back for more. Then, as he was rushing for the tenth time to the pond, he turned back. The water level had risen and he could see that Avanti was scared. Ballu came back quickly, picked Avanti up and placed her on his shoulders.Avanti put her arms around Ballu's neck and thanked him.Soon, the clouds disappeared and the sun came out. It was bright and cheerful once again. “I will never again ask you to blow the candles out,” said Avanti.“Why?”asked Ballu.“Who knows? Next time it might start raining frogs,” Avanti said and the two friends started laughing.

I saw a big truck drivingdown the road. A car came driving upthe road. The truck driver wastalking on hiscellphone. He was not looking atthe road. There was a bigaccident. An ambulance and thepolice came to help. Two tow trucks came.They towed the truckand the car. I was shocked.

Rachel was a fun loving 12 year old girl. She had a stuffed toy that was huge and she just loved him.The stuffed toy was with her since she was three years old. He had become old, little faded yet Rachel adored him.One night just before her stuffed toy's birthday, she had a dream. In the dream, Rachel saw herself and her stuffed toy going on an adventurous picnic in a jungle, but it suddenly started raining rather heavily.The toy had become alive and Rachel was amazed to see he was closing his ears on hearing the thunder. Soon Rachel found she was in a huge puddle of water and she was getting separated from her friend, her stuffed toy whom she had named Big Ben.Rachel had plans for Big Ben in the jungle. But she was getting pulled by strong waters in a river. Thankfully she was able to get herself out from the waters. And Big Ben too worked his way out of the waters. Aha! When both Big Ben and Rachel were on the banks of the river, Rachel removed lots of goodies from her backpack. She had planned a surprise birthday party for Big Ben.Big Ben was delighted.He had never had a birthday party as a stuffed toy.Then Rachel told him that whether he is alive or just as a stuffed toy; she will always be fond of him equally. Big Ben blew the candles on the cake that was even then fresh and had a great day with Rachel.When Rachel woke up the next morning she had a huge smile on her face and she ran to her stuffed toy to give him a tight bear hug before getting ready for school.

A rat is so messy. It jumps here and there everywhere; in every corner of the house. Its long tail is so beautiful. Its cute ears are always busy. Bits of papers and chopped veggies on the floor is a bad deed of its sharp teeth. Oh! you little grey mouse.

A long time ago, theking of the bush was Mr.Lion. He sent his animals tostop the noise comingfrom a small lake in thebush. But they did notsucceed! An elephantvolunteered to stop it.The elephant was sentout as a guard. At midnight the noisebegan and the elephantstarted killing the frogs.He did the same thingthe next day. After a couple of weeks,King Lion was happybecause the elephanthad stopped the noise. But about a monthlater, they saw a lot ofinsects on their farm. King Lion asked theelephant to call thefrogs to come and eatthe insects. The elephant was verynervous because hehad killed all of them.He said: Sorry, sorry, Ik- k- k- killed them! Then King Lion said:Elephant, I asked you tostop the noise, not tokill the frogs. And theelephant was put inprison for many years! And the king told all theanimals to always doexactly what he said.

Odongo and Apiyo lived in the city with their father.They looked forward to the holidays. Not just because school was closed, but because they went to visit their grandmother. She lived in a fishing village near a large lake. Odongo and Apiyo were excited because it was time to visit their grandmother again.The night before, they packed their bags and got ready for the long journey to her village. They could not sleep and talked the whole night about the holiday. Early the next morning, they left for the village in their father's car.They drove past mountains, wild animals and tea plantations. They counted cars and sang songs. After a while, the children were tired and fell asleep. Father woke up Odongo and Apiyo as they arrived in the village.They found Nyar-Kanyada, their grandmother, resting on a mat under a tree.Nyar-Kanyada in Luo, means 'daughter of the people of Kanyada'. She was a strong and beautiful woman. Nyar-Kanyada welcomed them into the house and danced around the room singing with joy.Her grandchildren were excited to give her the presents they brought from the city."First open my gift," said Odongo."No, my gift first!" said Apiyo. After she opened the presents, Nyar-Kanyada blessed her grandchildren in a traditional way. Then Odongo and Apiyo went outside. They chased butterflies and birds. They climbed trees and splashed in the water of the lake. When it was dark they returned to the house for dinner. Before they could finish eating, they were falling asleep! The next day, the children's father drove back to the city leaving them with Nyar-Kanyada. Odongo and Apiyo helped their grandmother with household chores. They fetched water and firewood. They collected eggs from the chickens and picked greens from the garden. Nyar-Kanyada taught her grandchildren to make soft ugali to eat with stew. She showed them how to make coconut rice to eat with roast fish. One morning, Odongo took his grandmother's cows to graze. They ran onto a neighbour's farm.The farmer was angry with Odongo. He threatened to keep the cows for eating his crops. After that day, the boy made sure that the cows did not get into trouble again. On another day, the children went to the marketplace with Nyar-Kanyada. She had a stall selling vegetables, sugar and soap.Apiyo liked to tell customers the price of items. Odongo would pack the items that customers bought. At the end of the day they drank chai tea together. They helped grandmother to count the money she earned. But too soon the holidays were over and the children had to go back to the city.Nyar-Kanyada gave Odongo a cap and Apiyo a sweater. She packed food for their journey. When their father came to fetch them, they did not want to leave. The children begged Nyar-Kanyada to go with them to the city.She smiled and said, "I am too old for the city. I will be waiting for you to come to my village again." Odongo and Apiyo both hugged her tightly and said goodbye. When Odongo and Apiyo went back to school they told their friends about life in the village. Some children felt that life in the city was good. Others felt that the village was better.But most of all, everyone agreed that Odongo and Apiyo had a wonderful grandmother!

Once upon a time all animals of jungle thought to had a urgent meeting. The agenda of meeting was continuous cutting of trees by man because of that animals are short of space. Mr. Elephant started the meeting. Mr. Elephant," I am worried about my coming generations , oh! Where they will have shelter if these MEAN HUMANS will continue to cut down our natural habitats." Yeah yeah we agree said all the animals together.

A long time ago, there was aman who lived with his wifewhom he loved very much.One day he took a walk to theforest. Along the way, he met atall, slender, and very beautifulgirl.He fell in love with her at firstsight. The girl too readilyaccepted him.But she told him that she hadonly one breast. So she told him to go home, cutoff one of his wife's breasts andbring it to her. Then she wouldhave two breasts, and theycould marry.The man ran very fast backhome, picked a knife, pouncedon his dear wife, and the breastwas off instantly. He hurried back to the forest towhere he had left his newfounddarling.But she was nowhere to beseen. He called her name veryloudly, but there was completesilence.Then he heard a voice saying,"Why are you calling? Don't youknow that you are in the forestarea of Musambwa kwaLibeeletwela?" When the man heard that, heran home as fast as a bullet ...Only to find his wife had justdied.He was so grief strickenbecause of what he had donethat he too died.

... I saw a kite flying a frog (or maybe it was the frog that flew the kite)... ...and a feather flying an ant (or maybe the ant was flying the feather)... ...and a water droplet flying a gnat (or maybe the gnat flew the droplet)... ...and a balloon that flew a rat (or maybe it was the rat that flew the balloon). What did you see when the wind blew today?

Today we are going to the zoo. We are going in dad's car. We are going to see animals. Look!An elephant.Look!A lion. We walk through the whole zoo! Look!Ice cream.Look!Sweets. And there is a clown with balloons. Dad buys us nice things. Soon we must go home. We saw many animals today! We are happy and tired. I wish every day was like today!

There was an old widow who had two sons and two daughters-in-law. They mistreated her all day long which made her very sad. The widow kept her sadness within herself and soon she grew heavy with the burden of her grief. On seeing her getting fat, her sons and daughters-in-law complained and served her less food.One day, they left her alone in the house while they went out to enjoy themselves in the village fair. The sheer misery of being alone with her sadness forced her to wander the streets. She came across a decaying house that seemed to reflect her state of mind and she ventured into it.The cracked walls seemed to invite her and her sorrow. She began to narrate how her first son tormented her. The wall on hearing her sad story collapsed, unable to bear the weight of her sorrow.Even after sharing her sorrow she felt stifled with her inner emotions. Then she shared how her first son's wife abused and disappointed her. The second wall buckled under her narration.Half the burden of her sorrow was released and taking this cue of sharing her emotional burden made her share the ill-treatment that she met at the hands of her second son.The wall crumbled under the narration's power of expression. Soon the fourth wall also crumbled as she narrated about the cruelty she met at the hands of her daughter-in-law.Eventually, all the four walls laden with old widow's tear just crumbled down. The widow then returned home feeling much better and light-hearted.

For ages, Olokwango hill stoodsmiling at the middle of KwerePlains. From the two dimples on itsside came springs which convergeddownhill to form a river.River Temu meandered silentlyacross the Kwere plains. Its waterswere a gift to the sheep and goatsof the area as well as the deer thatdwelt in the plains. Things were all well until Matatabecame headman.He ordered a path to be clearedfrom the top of the hill to the foot sothat he could climb uphill easily androll gently down to the foot.Olokwango hill was angry with thedamage to his beard, but he waspatient. During the weekend, Matata'schildren and their friends wouldclimb uphill to play.They would run all over the place,breaking twigs and branches,lighting fires for their games, whichthey would later leave burning. Over time, Olokwango lost patience.The dimples became smaller andsmaller as his face turned into uglywrinkles.At last the springs were no more.The deer in the plains migratedbecause there was no more tallgreen grass to play in. The sheepand goats grew thinner and thinner.Everyone felt the sadness ofOlokwango hill. The people of Kwere realised that something neededto be done.They joined hands and overthrew Matata theheadman.In his place they appointed Baraka who immediatelyordered everyone to plant a flower to honourOlokwango. Baraka and his people held ceremoniesand brought gifts of pine, cedar, and cypress forOlokwango. No one walked on the hill anylonger, and the grass had a chanceto grow tall once again. Gradually,the smile on the face of Olokwangohill grew broader and the dimplesdeeper. Out of the dimples thesprings ran again. River Temu wasrevived. The plains became greenerthan ever before. The deer gallopedhappily once more across the grass. "Long live Baraka, long liveBaraka," the people of Kwere sang."Long live Olokwango," said Barakaand his people. "May our childrenand children's children foreverrespect you."

"Nandu , Chinku , come here . It's time for your bath ", mummy called.Nandu and Chinku came running to the bathroom with their toy elephant .Mummy turned on the tap . Whooosh!!! whoosh!!! gushed water from the tap!!! They jumped into their bath tubs. Splish splash , splish splash , they played in the water .Nandu poured water all over his head . "Ooh , Ooh " squealed Chinku, playing in his tub. Rub , Rub , Rub Mummy rubbed soap all over Chinku .Elephant blew soap bubbles and sent them flying all over the bathroom. Now Nandu and Chinku were clean clean clean.They ran out of the bath. “Stop stop ,“ cried mummy, “ you are wet .” Mummy wrapped big white towels around Nandu and Chinku .Wipe Wipe Wipe , she wiped and made them dry dry dry . Nandu put on his green pajamas .Mummy put on blue pajamas for Chinku .He laughed because it went tickle tickle tickle . Nandu and Chinku 's tummy went rumble rumble rumble."Oh, You are hungry " said mummy. "Let's have dinner ." She gave them food and veggies. After dinner, Nandu and Chinku ran to grandpa's room.Nandu gave a hug and kiss to grandma . "Good night grandma," he said.Chinku climbed onto grandpa' s lap and wiggled his big moustache."Time for bed," called mummy. "Good night mummy," said Nandu and held mummy's hand."Good night Nandu," said mummy.Chinku fell fast asleep on mummy's arm."Good night children," said the moon peeping in!!

There was a man whodidn't want to live closeto his neighbours. Andhe also didn't want hiswife to visit the homesof her neighbours. One day he went andbuilt a home way out inthe bush, far from thehomes of hisneighbours. He would go out everyday in the morning andcome home late atnight. One night the man wasvery late getting home.A hyena saw what thatman was doing. The hyena went andknocked on the door ofthe house. The woman, thinking itwas her husband,opened the door. Thehyena jumped on herand devoured her. The man, when hereturned home saw thathis wife had been eatenby a hyena. There wasnothing he could say. All this happenedbecause he didn't wantto live near hisneighbours.

Once upon a time there was a deer and her name was Lily and she had a friend bird named Coco. Coco was very clever and smart. Every day they went to a meadow to eat food but they never realized that there was a cave and in that cave lived a wolf named Ham and he loved eating meat and especially a deer. One day Lily and Coco went to the meadow to eat their breakfast when Ham got a nightmare and he woke up and went out and as soon as he walked out he saw Lily and he thought she was his breakfast but he knew that she won't come and allow ham to eat her so he made a plan. He went outside and asked Lily "Can I by your friend I don't have a friend or family". Lily agreed but Coco told her not to believe him but Lily didn't listen all she wanted was a new friend. The next day when they all went to the meadow for breakfast and Ham thought of making a trap so he told Lily "I will take you to a place where there is fresh grass". So he took her to a farmer's crop and then waited and waited and after they went the farmer came and looked at his crops and what he saw was that some one is eating her crops and so she thought of putting a trap to find who was eating her crops. The next day early morning she put a net and she waited in her hut, then the deer came alone and started to it but she didn't notice the net. After she finished she got to know that she was glued to the net so she called for help, after some time her friend Coco came and asked her "What is the matter?" "I am stuck " replyed Lily. Then Coco got an idea and told Lily to play dead so she did and when the farmer saw her dead the farmer felt Ashamed of herself and so she untied Lily and as soon as she took the net away Lily ran as fast as she could and the farmer threw a wooden bat so coco turn it to Ham and the bat hit Ham's head and he died.

Today I went to the Zoo I saw a lot.I saw a Lion I saw an Elephant. I saw a crocodile. I saw a Giraffe. I saw a lot of zebras. And I even saw a cow. It was a lot of fun.But then daddy droveus home.



The journey started at 8:00 am. On the way tothe bats party, tortoise told the rabbit thatonce they reach at the party, he will be called"All of you" and rabbit accepted it. By 10:00am they were already at the party,warmly welcomed by the bats and given seatsin one room. The bats brought tea for them and tortoiseasked who should take the tea? The batsreplied "it is for all of you". Tortoise thanked the bats and he started takingthe tea alone since he was called all of you atthe party. When Time for lunch came, food was served.The bats again said, "This food is for all ofyou". Immediately Tortoise began eating as therabbit waited for his food. Unfortunately the bats did not know thattortoise was called all of you and the Batsfound out later that the rabbit did not eat whenthey came for plates. This shocked the batsbecause the food was over. The rabbit then moved out running as tortoiseand the bats enjoyed the party. Ever since then, tortoise walks slowly becauseof the food that he ate at the party, bats swingin the air because they are afraid of rabbit'shunger and rabbit runs so fast because he hasto find food to eat somewhere else.

There lived a man calledLodipo.He lived with his two wives,Akai and Akitela. Lodipo's first wife, Akai, was theonly one who helped his blindmother. One day, Lodipo's younger wife,Akitela, said, "Let us moveaway to a safer village."The current place wasconstantly attacked by cattleraiders and Akitela felt unsafe. Lodipo told Akitela that theycould not leave his blindmother.But Akitela insisted that theyshould move and leave the oldwoman alone."If you don't move away fromhere, I will return to myparents," Akitela cried toLodipo. Lodipo loved Akitela very muchso he gave in to her demandsand they prepared to leave.The first wife, Akai, watched allthese happenings withconfusion. Lodipo's blind mother sat on agoat skin under a tree.She was unaware of what wasgoing on."How can we leave her on herown?" Akai wondered. Lodipo and his two wives loadedall their belongings on their twocamels.They left quietly without evensaying goodbye to the oldwoman.But Akai was crying becauseshe was sad to leave hermother-in-law all alone. The old woman was left alone in the manyatta.She cried and sang this sad song:"Awesita Lodipo Ngina Ekitae Ka ng'akinei,Nakolong kedounio,Nitonoma tani Akolong'a Awesiti ngina,Awesiti a Lodipo ngina Eriamaros morua polonia." Immediately after Lodipo andhis wives had left, raidersattacked the village. The raiders asked the oldwoman to tell them where herson went.The warriors told her that theywould go after her son and killhim.The old woman pleaded withthem not to kill the first wifeand her children. She also told them to bringback her ram that Lodipo tookwith him. The warriors followed Lodipo.When he was just settling downin the new place, they caughtup with him.They killed him and his youngwife. The first wife, Akai, went backwith the ram to live with the oldwoman. Kwakukho indoda eyayigama lingu Lodipo. Wayehlala kunye no mama wakhe, nabafazi bakhe ababini, u-Akai no Akitela. Unkosikazi kaLodipo wokuqala, u-Akai, yayinguye kuphela owayencedisa umama kaLodipo owayengasaboni. Mini ithile, u-Akitela, inkosikazi encinci kaLodipo, wacebisa umyeni wakhe esithi, "Masihambe siyokuhlala kwenye indawo."  Wayeziva engasakhuselekanga, kuba apho babehlala khona, babehlaselwa ngabaphangi beenkomo. ULodipo waxelela u-Akitela ukuba umama wakhe wayengafuni ukushiya ikhaya lakhe. Kodwa u-Akitela wanyanzela ukuba bahambe, bamshiye umama kaLodipo. "Ukuba asihambi apha, ndizakubuyela ekhaya kubazali bam," wakhala u-Akitela. ULodipo wayemthanda kakhulu u-Akitela. Ngoko ke, wavuma ukushiya umama wakhe. Baqalisa ukulungiselela uhambo. U-Akai, umfazi wokuqala, wayengonwabanga nakancinci sesisehlo. Umama ka Lodipo wayezihlalele phantsi komthi engazi nokuba kwenzekani. "Singamshiya kanjani eyedwa?" Wazibuza u-Akai, ekhathazeke kakhulu. ULodipo wathatha inkamela, walayisha zonke iimpahla zabo. Wakuqgiba, wahamba kunye nabafazi bakhe bobabini. Bamshiya ke umama wakhe, bengatshongo nokuba bayahamba. Walila u-Akai, ezele lusizi ngokushiya uninazala wakhe eyedwa. Umama ka Lodipo washiyeka yedwa ekhala inyembezi, ecula lengoma: "Awesita Lodipo Ngina Ekitae Ka ng'akinei, Nakolong kedounio, Nitonoma tani Akolong'a Awesiti ngina, Awesiti a Lodipo ngina Eriamaros morua polonia." Emva kokuba uLodipo ehambile nabafazi bakhe, kuye kwafika abaphangi beenkomo, bahlasela ekuhlaleni. Babuza kumama kaLodipo ukuba uphi unyana wakhe. Babemkhangela, befuna ukumbulala. Wabacenga esithi, "Nincede ningambulali u-Akai." Umama kaLodipo wacela abaphangi ukuba babuye nenkunzi yakhe yegusha, uLodipo awayehambe nayo. Baye bahamba ke aba bahlaseli, beyokukhangela uLodipo. Bathe bakumfumana, bambulala kunye nomfazi wakhe omncinci u-Akitela. Uye wabuya ke u-Akai, kunye nenkuzi yegusha kamama kaLodipo. Bahlala kunye ngolonwabo ekhayeni labo.

Keshav Mukherjee was having an extremely frustrating day. He had forgotten his glasses at home and gone to work. He had forgotten to lay his wares out the previous night. Hehad not remembered to tell his wife to make aloo parathas for breakfast (he was extremely fond of them). He had messed up and misplaced his belongings numerous times and felt perfectly awful. On the whole, he was feeling downcast and unusually irritable. "Bhai, how much is this lungi for?" Asked a passerby to Keshav Mukherjee. Annoyed that he had been interrupted from his daydream, Keshav looked up at the customer. "Forty rupees", he replied in his gruff voice. "How about twenty five?" Bargained the customer. This was a usual haggle, and Keshav was used to it. However, he was not as patient and cheerful about it today, as he usually was. "Fine then!", he roared at the customer. "Take it and get out of here!". People passing by stopped and stared. They had never seen such a commotion occur before in the quiet and serene village of Sultanpur. Ladies stopped to whisper behind their hands. Men flexed their muscles to show that they could participate if needed. Almost the whole village of Sultanpur gathered around Keshav's daily needs shop 'Har Din ka Sapna'. " GET LOST I SAY!", he screamed at the crowd. Suddenly, a baby started crying and the crowd slowly dispersed. The customer also flung the money down and rushed away, lungi in mid-air. Breathing heavily, Keshav packed up his wares and left the marketplace. "Was that you screaming?". Asked his wife timidly. "Hmph", he snorted, "What's for dinner?", he asked. "But dear, you have to give me the money to buy the vegetables fordinner.", said his wife. Keshav fished into his pocket and brought out the twenty five rupees that he had earned that day. It was not enough to buy even the flour for their daily bread. "Well never mind dear", said his kind hearted wife. "I shall check if there is some money in my purse." Keshav felt terrible as he watched his wife take out her own hard earned money from her purse. He knew how much she liked to spend it on dresses and bangles for theirdaughters, Malika and Meena. That night, when the family sat down to dinner, Malika piped up, "Ma, papa, why are we just having dry roti and sabji? Ma promised that we could have samosas, parathas, and lots more. Keshav opened his mouth, to tell his wife off for making empty promises to the kids, but stopped himself in the nick of time. After all, it was him who had promised his daughtersto bring home lots of dolls for them from the market. Thank goodness they had forgotten about that. Just as all these swam in his head, Malika suddenly said, "Papa, you hadpromised to bring us lots of dolls today!" "Children, don't trouble your father so, he has had a hard day at work. Now if you finish your food quickly, I shall read you a bedtime story." Said Ranjani(his wife). Meena andMalika cleared their plates, and went after their mother. Keshav too, went to bed. The next day dawned bright and beautiful. Keshav woke up in a good mood, amd set off for work. He reached the market and laid out his wares. But, alas! No matter how bright and welcoming his wares were, no one was interested in them. This was extremely strange, as everyday at least a couple of customers would check out his wares during the morning time. Keshav sat down and pondered over this. He had flared up yesterday, and so the result was that nobody had anything to do with him. He knew that he had not meant to do anything serious, but he had no way to explain this to anyone. Just then, a beggar in rags came up to him. Keshav did not usually entertain beggars, but he scrutinized this one carefully. He seemed genuine. "Bhaisab, may I have this toy train? My son has been worrying me for one for a long time. I am not able to afford one for him. How much is it for?" "Eighty rupees", replied Keshav. The beggar extended his hand it was full of coins worth fifteen rupees. Keshav handed him the toy but did not take any money. "You need it more than I do", he said to the beggar. "And take an extra twenty rupees from me. It will be needed." Apasserby heard this conversation, and hastened off to tell it to his wife. His wife in turn, gossiped about it to her friends and soon, the whole village of Sultanpur knew what had happened. Soon everyone started coming to his shop once more. They realised that under this fierce personality, lay a warm and truthful heart.

Once upon a time there was a poorman and his wife. They had onlyone child, a girl. The child's namewas Nonkungu.Her parents loved Nonkungu verymuch. One day her parents decided tosend her to stay with her rich UncleMtonyama.Nonkungu's mother made a specialskirt with ribbon, buttons andbeads.She also made a beautiful beadnecklace for Nonkungu.Then she sent her off to her uncle'svillage. On the way Nonkungu came to astream. She crossed the streamusing the stepping stones.On the other side she met a younggirl wearing rags. "Where are you going?" asked theyoung girl."I'm going to visit my UncleMtonyama," said Nonkungu."Well, Mtonyama is my uncle, tooand I am also on my way to visithim," said the young girl.So they walked on together. Before they had gone very far, theyoung girl said, "Your skirt is sobeautiful and your beads are sopretty. Please let me try them on."So Nonkungu took off her skirt andbeads and gave them to the younggirl. When the girl took off her rags andchanged into Nonkungu's clothes,Nonkungu saw that the young girlhad a tail!Nonkungu was afraid.She knew now that the young girlwas really an imbulu. They walked on together."Please give me back my skirt andmy beads," asked Nonkungu.But the imbulu answered, "Let mewear them until we get to thattree."She pointed to a tree on the hill. When they reached the tree,Nonkungu said to the imbulu,"Please give me back my skirt andbeads.""Just let me wear them until we getto the next stream," said theimbulu.Nonkungu was afraid, so sheagreed. At last they reached the stream.Again Nonkungu asked the imbulu,"Please give me back my skirt andmy beads.""Just let me wear them until we getto that hut where the women aresitting," said the imbulu.So they walked on. When they reached the hut, theimbulu pushed Nonkungu back andcalled to the women sitting by thehut."Look at this girl wearing rags. Shehas been following me all day. Iwish she would go away," said theimbulu.Nonkungu was so ashamed and sofrightened that she ran hid in thekraal. Then the imbulu went to UncleMtonyama's hut. She said sweetly,"I am your niece, Nonkungu. Myparents sent me to stay with you."Mtonyama welcomed the younggirl. He and his family were verykind to the imbulu.But poor Nonkungu had to sleep inthe kraal and share the dog's food. During the day Nonkungu went tothe fields, hid in the corn, and sang:"Oh misery me, misery me.I was sent by my father and motherto stay with my Uncle Mtonyama.On the way I met an imbulu and shetook my skirt and my beads.Oh misery me, misery me." One day, one of Mtonyama'sbrothers was walking in the fields.He heard the strange and beautifulsong.He didn't know who was singing,but when he got home, he toldMtonyama the words.Mtonyama went into the fields. Heheard the song, and looked until hefound Nonkungu. Nonkungu told him what hadhappened, how the imbulu hadtaken her beautiful clothes.Mtonyama took her back to hisplace and hid her in a hut.Mtonyama knew what he was goingto do to catch the imbulu. Mtonyama had heard that animbulu's tail loves milk and that itcan't go past milk without drinkingsome.So he told his men to dig a deepditch and to fill the ditch with sourmilk.Then he called all the girls of thevillage to take part in a jumpingcompetition. The imbulu was worried. She didnot want to jump over the ditch.She knew that her tail would bethirsty for the sour milk.So she went into a hut and tied hertail to her body as tightly as shecould. Then she took her place withthe other girls. One girl after another jumped overthe ditch.At last it was the imbulu's turn.She tried to jump high over theditch, but her tail broke loose.The imbulu's tail pulled her down,down, down into the sour milk. As the imbulu struggled in the sourmilk, the men quickly filled theditch with sand and buried her. Thatwas the end of the imbulu.Nonkungu stayed happily with heruncle for a long, long time.And that is the end of the story.

Windy was always ready for an adventure. She did'nt like making paper boats or go berry picking in her town. So, when her friends were making paper boats, Windy would be sleeping. One such day, Windy discovered this little village under where her town. She slowly crept out of her town and went to the village. Suddenly, they were loud noises coming from the village bank. So Windy went to a house to hide there. In the house, Windy saw a little girl sipping a cup of coffee. The girl was suprised to see Windy. Soon, Windy and the girl became friends. The girl was hungry and wanted to eatsomething. So, Windy led her to the ladoos that were in the kitchen. Soon, Windy started coming everyday. Sometimes, when the girl was in school, Windy would play with the girl's brother. One day, the village was going to the waterfalls to celebrate their festival which they give each other gifts, kheer, ladoos and money. So before the village went, Windy wanted to take the kids to her house. So they silently went out of the village and to the clouds. When they reached, the kids could'nt believe their eyes. They could fly and play how much they wanted to. The little girl's brother was flying and examining the little creatures there. The little girl on the other hand, was admiring the town. It was quite an adventure for Windy. After the kids went, Windy was rejoicing and running around the town. Windy was the happiest wind in the whole town.

### Habits  A habit is a sticky thing;Much good or evil it can bring;It binds a victim, holds him fast,And keeps him in a vise-like grasp.  Bad habits grow with extra speed,Much like a healthy,growing weed.The roots grow deep,the stem grows stout;How difficult to pull it out! Good habits are a little slow;They need a lot of care to grow;If tended well,they grow more fairThan any bloom a plant can bear.  Good habits help us all through life;Bad habits bring us pain and strife;Our habits weather right or wrong,Each day will grow more firm and strong. ### To a butterfly  I've watched you now a full half-hour;Self-poised upon that yellow flower;And little Butterfly!indeedI know not if you sleep or feed.How motionless-not frozen seasMore motionless!and thenWhat joy awaits you,when the breezeHath found you out among the trees,And calls you forth again!  This plot of orchard-ground is ours;My trees are there,my Sister's flowers;Here rest your wings when they are weary;Here lodge as in a sanctuary!Come often to us,fear no wrong;We will talk of a sunshine and a song! ### The snare  I hear a sudden cry of pain!There is a rabbit in a snare:Now I hear a cry again,But I cannot tell from where.  But I cannot tell from where.He is calling out for aid!Crying on the frightened air,Making everything afraid!  Making everything afraid!Wrinkling up his little face!And he cries again for aid;-and I cannot find the place!  And I cannot find the place!Where his paw is in the snare!Little one!Little one!I'm searching everywhere! ### Silver  Slowly,silently,now the moonWalks the night in her silver shoon;This way and that,she peers and seesSilver fruit upon silver trees;One by one the casements catchHer beams beneath the silvery thatch;Couched in his kennel,like a log,With paws of silver sleeps the dog;From their shadowy cote of white breasts peepOf doves in a silver-feathered sleep. ### At the seaside  Our seaside summer holidays are as happy as can,we love to build sand castles,and wade out at sea.  And when we find an empty boat,off we quickly goto ask a nearby fisherman,to take us for a row  We ride the horse on the beach,We drive the go kart tooIt is really surprising to thinkof all the things you can do.

"Shhhu!" says Grandmother. "It's so hot! And this pot is so heavy.Let's sit in the shade of the tree and rest a bit."She wipes the sweat from her face and makes herself comfortableamong the arms of the roots. Selma stands with her hand on thesmooth skin of the baobab while her brother, Toivo, walks roundthe trunk to see how wide it is. "This tree is very old, isn't it,Grandmother?""Yes, Selma, it is. But it is not as old, or as big as the tree at thevillage of Ombalantu!""Ombalantu? The village near here?" asks Selma."Please tell us about the tree there," begs Toivo."Then sit and listen," says Grandmother and she begins her story. There was once a girl called Thaimi who lived in the village ofOmbalantu. One day she went with her brother, Angula, to fetchwater. While Thaimi was filling her pot Angula saw a hare. He ranafter it. He ran and ran and ran - but do you think he could catchthat hare? He could not. The hare was too quick for him.Thaimi's pot was full and she was ready to go home. She lookedaround but she could not see Angula. She did not know where hehad gone. But, she did know that she couldn't go home withouther little brother. So she set out to look for him. She walked andshe walked and she walked.At last she found him lying in the grass behind a large anthill. Asshe came close he held his finger to his lips. Why did he want herto be quiet? Close by a group of strange men were resting. Themen had bows and arrows...and spears! Thaimi could hear theirvoices."Angula," she whispered, after she had listened for a bit. "Thosemen are raiders. They have come to steal our cattle and burn ourvillage. Come quickly. We must run home and warn the village." Sovery quietly Thaimi and Angula crept away from that place. Andran towards their village. When they were near their village they met their uncle. He wastaking his cow to the water. Thaimi called out, "Run, uncle, run!Men are coming to steal our cattle and burn our village."The man shouted at his cow and made her run towards the village.Further on Thaimi saw her aunt working in the field and she calledout, "Run, aunt, run! Men are coming to steal our cattle and burnour village!"And the woman took her hoe, picked up her sleeping baby and rantowards the village.Further on Thaimi saw her grandfather. He was limping along theroad beside a donkey loaded with grain.And she called out, "Run, Grandfather, run! Men are coming tosteal our cattle and burn our village!"Her grandfather lifted his stick and chased the donkey until it rantowards the village. And so Thaimi and her brother reached the village. And she calledout to everyone, "Run, run. Men are coming to steal our cattle andburn our village!"The villagers were scared. They ran backwards and forwards likeants when a heap is trodden on by a cow.They did not know where to hide or what to do.Where could they hide their cattle?Where could they hide their grain?Where could they hide themselves?Thaimi was very frightened. Then she remembered something.She remembered the place where she and Angula sometimes wentto play.A safe place.A secret place. "I have a place!" she cried. "I know a place where we will all besafe!"But the villagers could not hear her. They were making too muchnoise. How could she make the villagers listen to her? What do youthink Thaimi did?She picked up a drum and began to hit it as hard as she could."Bam Bam Bam Boom Boom Boom."All the villagers stopped.Thaimi called out, "I have a place to hide. Follow me."She took Angula by the arm."Come, we'll take everyone to our tree. We will all be safe there!"Her brother shook his head."No, Thaimi. That is our secret. You said we must never tellanyone.""Yes", she said. "It was a secret. But now we are all in danger."Thaimi and Angula led the way to a baobab tree which stoodnearby. Nobody could understand why. "Why have you brought us here? We cannot hide here," they said.Then Thaimi said to her father, "Come. I'll show you." Theyclimbed to the top of the tree. There was a small opening.Thaimi and her father slid down into the big trunk. It was hollow. Itwas huge. "But all the people can't come in through such a smallhole," said her father."No," said Thaimi. "Bring axes and we will make an opening in thetrunk." And that is what they did. They cut an opening in the sideof the tree. Some villagers collected the grain and the pots.Others collected the goats, the sheep and the cattle. They allmade their way through the opening into the great hollow insidethe baobab tree.And the strange thing was that there was room for everyone. The sun went down. It grew dark and the night was quiet and cold.The raiders crept up towards the village. It was dark. "Everyonemust be asleep," they said.Inside the great tree the villagers waited.What was going to happen?They were cold. They were hungry. And they were afraid.Then Thaimi said, "It's cold. Let's make a fire." And she took twostones and struck them together. The sparks caught the grass andsmall flames flared.Soon a bright warm fire was burning. Outside the raiders crept closer and closer.Then suddenly one of them gave a cry and pointed to the tree.Light flamed from the tree. Fiery eyes shone from the trunk. Brighttongues licked the branches. Smoke curled into the sky."It's a great spirit!" they cried in fear. First one raider turned andran. Then another, and another. Until they had all run away. Thepeople of the village of Ombalantu were saved. Grandmother is silent.Selma touches the smooth skin ofthe baobab."So it was the tree that saved themall," she says.

HoliIt's holi!There is a lot of cheer around India. Me and my family are getting ready to celebrate holi.We wear ethenic clothes on this day. We play holi on an empty ground. We spray colour water on each other.After we finished spraying water, and after the celebrations are over, we distribute sweets and samosas to the neighbours.Me and my family enjoy holi. Do you? DusseheraOn dussehera, me and my family buy dolls and make a *golu. We make vadas, paysam, sweets and dry rice.I help my grandmother make the food. Then, me and my mother go and invite people who we know to see the golu.In the night, we give sweets to the people who we invited.I like dussehera. Do you? OnamOn onam, we make a rangoli out of jasmine and other coloured flowers. Me and my family go to Kerala to celebrate onam.We first go to my cousins house and then we start making the rangoli. After we finished, we go and watch the boat race.The boat race is held near the islands. After the boat race is over, we rent a boat and go for a row.I love onam. Do you? DiwaliDiwali is creeping close!On this wonderful festival, the whole of India will be filled with light.In english, Diwali is called" the festival of lights". We light diya's and burn crackers on this day.We wear non-synthitic clothes to not get burnt. We make sweets, vada's and pongal. We distribute sweets to the neighbours.I enjoy Diwali. Do you?

A girl A bird A lion A cat

Everybody knew that Mama Scholaliked to shout a lot. That day, it was about cows at themarket."Push these silly cows away," shesaid. "They are eating myvegetables." "Hey you there! Push these sillycows away from here," she insisted."They are eating my clothes." "Where is the owner of these sillycows?" she shouted. "They areeating my grains." Sorimpan, the herd boy, had justgone to drink water at a tap whenhis cows wandered off to themarket.He hid away, squatting in fear,when he heard the shoutingwoman. "Now look what these silly cowshave done!" she continued toshout. "They have broken mybeautiful pots." A short time later, "Aah! Not again!"she was heard saying. "I will reportthis matter to the police. These sillycows have knocked down my fruitstand." Sorimpan finally came out stick inhand, dodged between thegathering crowds and managed toget a clear view of his cows.Sorimpan's cows knew him well sothey turned and looked up at him ashe appeared! At this point, the big crowd ofonlookers of men, women and evenchildren all stared at the cowswhich paid attention only toSorimpan. Suddenly, the cows broke theirsilence!They began to talk all at the sametime, criticising the people! The crowds were shocked and stepped back one byone, afraid of the cows.Then the cows stopped talking and watched thecrowd in amazement!But Mama Schola was heard saying, "Since when didcows meddle in our market businesses?" It was Mama Schola's turn to becriticised by the cows!All the other women selling movedto stand with Mama Schola out offear. The cows criticised the women,commenting on the state of theirvegetables, saying,"What kind of vegetables are these?They are all old and drying up!" It was clear that the cows were notyet done!They turned round and faced thecloth-stand and shouted, "You saywe eat your clothes, what clothes?You mean these old rugs! Who willbuy them?" The cows then moved to the nextstand and everybody followed themwith their eyes."Your grains are full of weevils. Whowants to eat that! We only tasted tosee if this is a place to come moreoften!" the cows sneered. "And you Mama Schola," the cowscontinued, "stop making noise. Youtalk of these cracked pots?" Thecows turned their heads towardsMama Schola's pots."They are no good, they break soeasily, so don't blame us."With that, the cows turned and left,followed closely by Sorimpan.

Bong! It was 1'o' clock in the morning on a winter Saturday . As far as Andromeda aka Andi knew , no one was awake except her. Now it was time to put her plan into action. Two nights before, Andi had seen a mystical glowing light in the forest. It had a magical feel to it, and Andi was immediately drawn to it. The next night , she had seen the same thing. And so, she planned a way to see what was the source of the light. Quietly, she stole out of her room with a torch in her hand. She tip toed past the the other dormitories. She breathed a sigh of relief once she was out of the stark, dull brown building. Andi made her way to the dark forest. Quiet as a mouse, she took up her hiding place near one of the clearings to keep watch for the source of the silvery light. Finally, after a long wait, there seemed to be a silvery light approaching. Andi stiffened up and waited. It seemed to take forever, walking almost lazily into the clearing. Then, she saw it! It was a jackal! Andi could hardly believe her eyes! Suddenly, after walking into the clearing, it stopped and tensed. Andi held her breath. Then, it looked straight at her.Andi looked into those bright blue eyes as the world around her began to fade. Her head was swimming and she felt very dizzy...... "And that is why I never went back to that jungle!" Andi told the attentive children sitting around her."Wow!! One more story grandma, please!" the children begged her."No more. Now go ask your grandpa to take you for a boat ride."

There was much unhappiness in a village of small huts. The peoplewho lived there had been happy before, but then wild animals hadcome and had begun to frighten them. These animals ate all theircrops and from time to time they even carried off children whowandered away from their parents. It was not a good place to liveany longer, and the people began to think of where they might goto lead a new life.  One family found the answer. Rather than deal with the wildanimals who seemed to be everywhere on the flat land, theydecided to go in search of food up in the hills. It was not hard tofind food there. There were bushes that grew in the cracksbetween rocks. There were trees that grew at the foot of theslopes. There were rock rabbits which could be trapped and birdswhich could be brought down with the stones which littered thefloor of the caves.  Other families noticed how well the hill family was doing. They sawthe sleekness of their children, and they noticed how calm theparents were."It is a good life that we lead up in the hills," said the husband."You should come there too."Soon the other families abandoned their homes on the flat landand went up to the hills. Each family found a cave to live in, and inthis way they were warm and secure. Soon everybody talked abouthow sorry they were that they had not come to the hills earlier,rather than letting the wild animals eat their crops and drag offtheir children.  As the children grew up in the hills, they began to get better at thethings that had to be done to live in such a place. They becamevery quick at climbing rocks, and even the youngest couldscamper up a face of rock almost as quickly as any rock rabbit.They also became good at climbing into trees to look for fruit, andthey could swing in the branches almost as well as any monkey.People who passed by and saw the hill people living on their hillwondered whether they were perhaps wild animals, but when theysaw their faces and the clothes that they were wearing theyrealised that they were only people who had made the hills theirhome.  Slowly, things began to change. The parents noticed that theirchildren were talking less, and that rather than speaking to oneanother in the language of people they were beginning to usegrunts. Then the adults themselves noticed that their noses weregetting bigger and that they were growing hairier. Every time theylooked at one another they saw that their faces had changed yetmore and that their teeth were longer.Soon they spent as much time on four legs as on two, and it wasat this point that they became a new creature. This creature,which had never before been seen in that place, was the creaturewhich people now call the baboon.  For a time, the baboons lived happily. They stopped chasing therock rabbits and started to eat grubs from the ground. They alsoforgot how to talk, and nobody now made any sound other than abark or a grunt. They took off their clothes and let the rags lie onthe ground until they were destroyed by ants. Their legs and armswere now completely covered with dark hair.They still remembered, though, that they had been people, andthis was something which made them worried. When they lookedinto each other's faces, they realised that their noses were nowmuch bigger than they had been before, and this made them jeer.Every baboon laughed at every other baboon, pointing at hisenlarged nose and throwing his hands about in mirth. This madethe baboon who was being laughed at angry. He would jump upand down in anger, all the while laughing at the large nose of theother.  Eventually the mockery became so great that the baboons couldno longer bear to be together. Each family split off and lived byitself, laughing at the others because of their great noses, but notliking to be laughed at for their own noses. That is why baboonslive in small groups today and do not live as a baboon nation, asdo people and many other animals.

Ridhima and Rohan loved painting. They painted all day. They won many art prizes in school. One day, mummy told them that they were moving to a new house. The children were very happy. Mummy told them that they also had to paint the house. They liked the house very much. The builders told them to paint the fence. They happily agreed. After they finished, they asked the builder if they could paint the gate. The builder happily agreed. After they finished, they wanted to paint the house. So they went inside. They had to first clean they house. They cleaned it and then they started painting. They designed the walls with fingerprints and checkers. After they had finished, everyone around the neighbourhood came and praised them. After the people had gone, mummy told them to make paintings. So they made them. They even sold their paintings. Mummy was very pleased with their talent. Ridhima and Rohan were world famous for their paintings. They even started their own little shop. If we want to make something like them, we should love art.

I had never worn shoes before.When I saw children wearingnice shoes, I would look at themwith longing. My mother would say, "You willhave many pairs in the future,just wait!"Sometimes I did not believe her."When is the future?" I askedher one day. Time passed and it was nearlyChristmas.Everybody was busy going tothe market and coming backwith bags of new things."Mother, are we going to themarket?" I asked her. The day before Christmas, mymother woke me up earlier thanusual.She asked me to fetchthe big shopping basket shealways carried to the market. At the open-air market therewere many parents with theirchildren.They were buying new clothesand stocking up on food. We went straight to where therewere many different types ofshoes.My eyes were wide withamazement. I gaped at rowafter row of neatly arrangedshoes. After trying on many pairs, Isettled for black lace-up shoes.At home that night, I couldn'tsleep.I was so excited thinking of howI would wear my new shoes andshow off to every child in thevillage. After a while, I got out of bedand put on the shoes.I walked slowly around the roomand then put the shoes backintothe box.I lay down again, but I couldn'tsleep. I got up and tried on the shoesa second time.I strutted around the room for awhile and then put them back. I lay down once more and triedto sleep. But I got up a thirdtime.I put on the shoes and jumpedaround the room. Then I felttired.I decided to get back into bed. The following morning, I waswoken by my mother. "What isthis I see?" she asked. I was wearing my new shoes inbed!

Grandma likes juggling.She juggles wherever she goes. She juggles from day to night.She juggles till the stars are bright. She juggled in the office where she was praised.She juggled in the shop and got hundred rupees. She tried juggling with mangoes, but they fell down with a!!SPLAT!!Grandma was very sad. She wanted a set of juggling balls. Grandma told grandpa she needed a set of juggling balls.So she got one. She was very happy. Grandma soon became a professional juggler.She was the best juggler in the world.

A rainbow has seven colours. The first colour is red. Kewyu is wearing a red shirt. The second colour is orange. This is an orange.What else can you see that is the colour orange? The third colour is yellow. The yolk of an egg is yellow.What else can you see that is the colour yellow? The fourth colour is green. Our banana garden is green. The fifth colour is blue. The sky is blue. The sixth colour is indigo. These berries are the colour indigo. The seventh colour is violet. My dress is violet.Violet is my favourite colour!What is your favourite colour? Do you know the seven colours of the rainbow?

Once upon a time, there was a girl called Nina. She loved butterflies a lot. One day, Nina saw a lot of butterflies sitting on a flower bush. She wanted to touch and see them. So she ran but the butterflies flew away and she came back sadly. The next day, Nina again went to the flower bush to see the butterflies. But when the butterflies came Nina's mother called her and she couldn't see them. After awhile, Nina came back to the flower bush but it started raining. She waited and waited and waited for a long time. When she really got tired of waiting, she decided to go back home. The next day, she said to her mother rather crossly, “This is the final day, that I am going to the flower to see the butterflies.” After a few minutes, she went back to the flower bush and all the butterflies came. Nina happily played with all of them and she called her Mother and said, “I saw a lot of butterflies come and take a look at it, mother.” Both Nina and her mother, enjoyed the butterflies together.

Gargi liked to go to the beach and sail paper boats. She liked to sing" Row row row your boat , gently by the stream. Merrily merrily merrily merrily life is like a dream." She also loved to build magnificient sand castles. She liked to play in sand and always wanted to remain dirty. "Gargi, come here wash your hands thoroughly," said Mother with a soap-box in her hand."noooooo".....screamed and cried Gargi as if she saw a monster in the soap-box. She kicked Soapy so hard that he flew up and hit the ceiling of the bathroom.Soapy was scared of Gargi and fed up of her tantrums. Her unhygienic habits put her into trouble and Gargi was down with fever. She had to take medicines given by her doctor and that night she saw a dream... The germy brothers Ravu, Takshu, Shaku, Dronu and their evil friends had surrounded her house. They wanted to capture her house and began to kick and punch her .She cried desperately, "Help! Help!"But as she had a sore throat, her voice could not be heard by anyone. Suddenly she heard a stern voice," Better leave Gargi alone or suffer the consequences.""Ha-ha-ha........ We are the most powerful germs on earth known to human beings. How can soap bubbles harm us?" said the evil Duryo with pride. Then it was Soapy versus the germy brothers.The war lasted long. Finally it was the victory of clean over dirty. Gargi was rescued by Soapy. Ta...ra...la...la..la..rum...pum...pum... danced Soapy with joy.Gargi realised that Soapy was her true friend. Her fever had also subsided by now. Next day morning, Mother was surprised but pleased to see Gargi brushing her teeth happily. Neither did she scream or yell at the sight of Soapy. She had learnt a lesson. Soapy helped Gargi to be clean and germ-free.With Soapy around she was not afraid of the germy brothers anymore. She felt safe with Soapy. Birds, butterflies and flowers were smiling with Gargi and Soapy. They all wanted to celebrate their friendship.

This is the giraffe. It has a verylong neck. It eats leafs from talltrees. What colour is thegiraffe? This is the elephant. The males have whitetusks. They have large ears. Elephants havelong trunks that they use to pick leaves off thetall trees. Elephants eat grasses and leaves.What colour is the elephant? This is the crocodile. It lives inthe rivers and lakes. It has along tail. It can open its widemouth to eat fish and otheranimals. What colour is thecrocodile? This is the lion. He has big teethwhich he uses to catch his food.The male lions have amane.Where is the mane onthis lion? This is the crested crane. It isthe symbol of Uganda. It haslong legs and a crown. Whatcolour is the crested crane? This is the water buffalo. It eats grasses andlives near rivers and lakes. What are the thingson the top of its head called? These animals are calledzebras. They have black andwhite strips. What otheranimals look like a zebra? Here are two different animals. Here is amother warthog with her babies. Warthogshave tusks too. Which animal looks like thewarthog?The other animal is the cob. It eats grasses.What colouor is the cob? What are these two animal friends?Where do they live? Which one would you eat?

Once upon a time, there lived aking called Opale with his beautifulqueen.They had only one beautifuldaughter. One day, a king looked at hisprincess and said to his wife, "Ithink our daughter is grown up now,we must find her a handsome manfrom the village." "Who will marry my beautifulprincess?, a king asked himself.He thought of a test for all men whowill come expecting to marry hisdaughter."I am going to cook a pot fullof water and any man who will drinkthis hot water will marry my lovelydaughter." said the king. The following day the king put up an announcementinviting all unmarried men in the village.Announcement!!! Announcement!!!To all young and unmarried men in the village,a kingwants to find a handsome man for his beautifuldaughter.Come, Come, Come all. On hearing the announcement,all young men werevery excited and every body got set for the day. One of the young men told hisfather,I have had that the king hasinvited all young men to hispalace,he wants to choose ahusband for his daughter.Father,"I must go and stand beforethe king,am very sure I will comeback with the princess." As usual,it was a proposed day,aqueue of young and smartlydressed men was seen movingtowards the palace.Every body was very happy. "You are all most welcome"said theking.Then the king began to address thecrowd of young men,If any onedrinks a pot of hot water all atonce,he will be able to my lovelyprincess with him. They were very many in that theinterview could not be completewithin a day.Most men tried their level best butthey could not go with the princess. On the following day,there camemr. Hare who had heard theannouncement late.He was welcomed and given a seat. The king told him,to take mydaughter,one has got to drink a potof hot water all at once.That is nothing to me,my lord,saidmr Hare. Mr. Hare was a very wise and trickyman,he started a very interestingstory that took up the king'sattention while the water wascooling. The chiefs and the king were veryhappy saying, "This is the man wewanted."In a few minutes,the hot water hadcooled and mr. Hare drank it all atonce. The king and his chiefs were verysurprised to see mr. Hare drinkingthe hot water. Finally mr. Hare took the beautifulprincess with him and he was veryhappy but the king remained verysad because his daughter had gonewith an animal.

Yusuf was a bus conductor. He wasn't highly educated, nor was he extremely pious. He was a simple guy who loved his family. He was hardworking and a simple person. A typical day for him meant getting up early, completing his religious prayers, helping his wife with some chores, and depending on his duty shifts either dropping or picking the children from school. He was a private man. He lived in a ‘basti' in Mumbai, and harbored dreams that his children should be well educated and get good jobs. He had friends from all religions and he never considered his two daughters any less than a boy.Yusuf didn't read many religious books nor did he consider himself a scholar of Quran, but believed Allah blessed people who worked hard and helped others and lived by this ethos. So at times he would buy a ticket for a rag picker who looked too tired to walk home or calm down a crying school girl when she realized she forgot the bus money at home. He did such small gestures as and when possible. He called them ‘Neki ka khazana'.One day Yusuf was on the night duty. It was their last run before the bus would be driven into the bus depot and the driver and Yusuf could go home. As it was a night run and the route on which their bus plied was majorly empty and lonely they did not expect many passengers. The few passengers that had gotten into the bus at the start of the journey got down. The driver said “Now if we don't get any more passengers we might be at the depot in the next half an hour” Yusuf agreed and was happy as it was a holiday next day and he had promised his daughters to take them to Chowpaty. As the driver and Yusuf chit chatted about the plans next day, they saw the lights of a car blinking away at a distance. The driver slowed the bus as they reached near the car and they saw a young girl peering over the open bonnet. Yusuf asked the driver to stop and asked the girl “Kya hua madam? Gaadi shuru nahi ho rahi aapki?” (What's the matter? Did your car break down?) She looked up and nodded and said “My vehicle broke down and I am waiting for an auto or a cab to come by” Yusuf informed her that this part of the road was usually empty at nights and she might not find an auto or cab. He asked her to get in the bus and they could drop her till the depot which was in the heart of the city, from where getting a cab or rickshaw would be easier. She looked uneasily at the empty bus, but realized she had no other alternative. She got into the bus cautiously. Yusuf realized her uneasiness and said casually, she should inform someone at home about her problem and the fact that she and the fact that she is boarding a bus. He even offered their depot address and phone number for her relatives to contact.She felt reassured by his thoughtfulness and smile. She settled down and the bus started down the lonely strench. Just as they crossed a party lawn two young men got into the bus. They seemed to be a little drunk. As they got into the bus, they eyed the girl sitting at the back. They smiled at each other and started making way towards the seat where she was sitting. Yusuf and the driver knew these men could mean trouble. Yusuf quickly got in the way and said “Pehle ticket nikalo phir baitane jao” (First take the tickets and then go) As the men fumbled with their wallets, he addressed the girl “Beti tum bhi aake ticket le lo” (You too come here and buy the ticket) The girl realized that Yusuf was asking her to sit at the front of the bus near the driver and open door. She quietly made her way past the men and sat in front. He then told the men to go sit at the back. As they protested and started acting rude, Yusuf and driver stole a quick look and he simply said “The smell of the liquor makes the driver vomit and we don't want an ill driver on this empty road!”As the driver drove the bus in full speed, Yusuf said a quick prayer and stood between the boys and the girl. The rest of the journey was uneventful and they reached the depot in the next 20 minutes. As all got down, the girl saw someone who had come to pick her up. She thanked the driver and Yusuf and quickly made her way to the waiting car.The next morning, Yusuf saw a number of calls from the bus depot. He called back and was informed to reach the depot in half an hour. He got worried and hurriedly got ready to reach the depot. As he reached the depot, he saw his friend the driver from earlier night pacing around impatiently. As he saw Yusuf he said “Even you have been Just as they were discussing the possible reason for such urgent summons, they saw the girl from the earlier night smiling and coming towards them. “Hello my name is Aalia. I am a reporter with People's Voice newspaper. I would like to take your interview.” Yusuf asked “Madamji hamara interview kyu?” (Why take our interview?) Aalia said “We are so used to reading about unruly drivers, rude conductors that drivers and conductors are seen with a preconceived notion of being repugnant or at the least impolite. You changed my attitude yesterday and now I want the world to know my story and see you all in the same light.” I just want to know what made you do what you did yesterday. Yusuf and the driver just smiled and said “Madamji we did not do anything great. We have children, wives and sisters. It's just something any decent man would have done” Yusuf added “My daughters too go on their own to school or tuitions. I can't be with them always, but I believe if I help someone with my deeds Allah ensures thatthere is someone to look out for my daughters as well! Neki ka khazana kabhi zaaya nahi hota.”

At the tip of South India, there lies a beautiful beachNo one lives there and it's quite hard to reach!5000 years ago, here Lord Rama had crossed..Looking for his wife Sita, who was lostRavana had taken her to Lanka, across the mighty oceanHow could Rama reach there, for he had no magic potion? Ravana had crossed it in his flying machine, for he was rich!But Lord Rama was poor, so he had to build a bridge.Lord Rama and his vaanar sena began building a bridge of floating stonesBack in Lanka, when Vibheeshana heard this, he got afraid and moaned! But arrogant Ravana refused to listen to his brotherSo Vibheeshana left Lanka to join the camp - other!Finally, the bridge was ready, but Lord Rama's army was in fearTo calm them, and for good luck, to Lord Shiva did Rama send a prayer.. All this happened at Dhanushkodi, a place that is a ghost townPeople used to live there, until the place was destroyed by a cycloneEven now, the temple here has the miraculous floating stonesYou can reach here by jeepwhich rides in the water deep,but the ride may make your bones groan!

Once upon a time, there was a boywho was so ugly that nobody lovedhim, even his parents.At home, he would sit alone whilehis family watched television. At school, you would find him sittingalone while other children wereplaying. When they went to fetch the cattle,you would find him walking behindall the other boys because theydidn't want to walk with him. One day he decided to leave, but hedidn't know where he would go. Hewalked until he got to an indigenousforest. He started to get scared butwas comforted by the thought thatnobody would speak to himbecause nobody loved him. When he was about to enter theforest, an old, dirty, ugly womancame up to him. She greeted himand asked what he was doing in thescary forest. The boy was shockedto hear someone speaking to him.He told the old woman that he wasgoing anywhere because nobodyloved him. The old woman asked if he neededhelp. He responded quickly and said"Yes". The old woman said thatbefore she helped him, she wantedhim to lick her face until she wasclean and beautiful. The boy didn't have any otheroption but to lick the old woman'sface in order to get the help heneeded. He started licking the sleepfrom her eyes, the snot from hernose and the wax from her ears. Helicked her face until she was cleanand beautiful. The old woman thanked him. Shesaid, "You will find many wonderfulthings in the forest, but don't takeany of these things. Only bring backthe root that you find." The boy ran, wanting to see all ofthose things in the forest. Butbefore he could enter the forest, theold woman called him. She said,"Boy! Come back here!" He ranback to her and said, "I'm here".She asked him if he had heard whatshe said to him. "I said you will findmany wonderful things in the forest,but don't take any of these things.Only bring back the root that youfind," she repeated. The boynodded and so the old womanallowed him to go into the forest. The boy ran off, but before he couldenter the forest, he heard a voicesaying, "Boy! Come back here!" Hestarted to be confused about whatthe old woman wanted. He ran backto her. She said, "I don't think youheard me properly. I said you willfind many wonderful things in theforest, but don't take any of thesethings. Only bring back the root thatyou find." The boy nodded and ranback to the forest. Just after he had entered the forest,he heard a voice again saying,"Boy! Come back here!" He tried toignore the voice but he continuedhearing it so he went back to theold woman. The old woman said, "Idon't trust you. I don't think you'lldo what I ask you to do. I said youwill find many wonderful things inthe forest, but don't take any ofthese things. Only bring back theroot that you find." The boy wasstarting to become annoyed withthe repetition. He ran faster thanbefore, until he was in the forest. Once he was in the forest, he saw abowl filled with money. He took themoney and put it in his pocket. Allof a sudden, he thought about whatthe old woman said, that he mustn'ttake anything except the root.He took the money out his pocket and put it back in the bowl. He looked around and saw somesplendid new clothes. He took offthe clothes he was wearing and puton the new ones. Again he thoughtabout what the old woman hadsaid. He took off the new clothesand put his old ones back on. He looked around and saw the root.It was withered from the sun. Heasked himself what the old womanthought he would do with the root.Next to the root, there was a bowlof food. The food smelled deliciousand the boy was hungry. Hecouldn't stop himself from eatingthe food. When he had finished, heremembered what the old womanhad told him. He remembered thatthe old woman had said he mustonly take the root. He lookedaround for the root, but he couldn'tsee it. He went back, feeling disappointed,to tell the old woman what hadhappened. But he couldn't find herwhere he had left her.

After finishing her dinner, sitting on bed Aditi looked out of the window. She saw the bright moon. " How I wish I go to moon." she thought.Immediately, Aditi found herself flying . Soon she landed on the moon.she wanted to play there. She built a sand castle on the moon and decorated it with the moon stones found there. Suddenly she felt hungry. She started exploring the moon for food, but could find nothing. She wanted to return home and eat something.. But how? She could not find her way back home.She started crying. At that time, she felt like someone touching her. It was a fluffy cloud. The cloud said," Aditi, Don't cry. I shall take you home. Sit on me." Aditi happily sat on the cloud. The cloud started moving. Eyes wide opened Aditi was looking around. She saw an aeroplane passing by. She tried to reach the plane but could not. So Aditi came to the edge of the cloud to reach the plane. Now, the cloud lost balance and flipped. And so Aditi started to fall down. That was scary for her. She was about to scream. At that time she could hear her mom calling her," Aditi wake up. It will be late for school."Aditi woke up and saw herself on her bed.Oh! . It was all a dream.

Once there was a family who had atree with such sweet fruit thateveryone visited their compound totaste the fruit.The family also had a very beautifuldaughter. Many people admired herdazzling beauty, white eyes andabove all, her great personality. When she grew up into a youngwoman, young and old men flockedto her home seeking her hand inmarriage.Her parents decided that the manwho could sit in the compound thewhole day without eating any fruitwould be given her hand inmarriage. The news spread all over thevillage.The first man to come was the headof all farmers in the village. He washandsome, rich and young. He waswelcomed and served the fruit.He sat for a few minutes, but beforelong, he ate the fruit and was sentaway. The leader of animal keepers wasnext. He was handsome, young andrich. The girl admired him. Butwhen he was served with the fruit,he immediately ate it, and was sentaway. The next man to come had manypieces of land. He was arrogant andugly. The girl prayed that he wouldeat and go away.When served, he refused to eat.The time passed, and the girlstarted begging him to eat. Byaround four o'clock, he wasovercome with hunger, and he ate.He, too, was sent away. Next, the chief came around. Hewas arrogant, old, and ugly. No oneliked him in the village. The girlwished that he would eat and goaway.When he was served with the fruit,he refused to eat. He stayed thewhole day. At about six o'clock, heasked if he could go to the toilet. He was allowed to go.When he returned, the aroma of the fruit hung around him, and hislips were red! He had eaten the fruit in the toilet!To the girl's relief, he was sent away. A few days later, a young,handsome, rich prince arrived. Thegirl looked at him in admiration.She took him aside, and beggedhim not to eat the fruit. She servedhim much less fruit than the othersuitors.But by midday the prince hadalready eaten and was sent away.The girl burst into tears of angerand disappointment. The next day, a farmer camearound. He was poor and lazy, buthe was young and popular amongmany people for being a greattalker. He came determined to win.The girl served him many fruits andasked him to eat and go away. When he was served, he refused to eat. The girl waited painfully.Midday passed, and then two o'clock. At four o'clock, the farmerasked for water.The girl prayed that he would eat the fruit, but she was stillpraying when the clock turned to seven. This farmer had overcomethe test of endurance set by the parents! Her parents had to hand over theirdaughter to the "lazy one".The girl begged to be saved fromher fate, but her parents could donothing.As the farmer took her home, hesang such a beautiful song whileclapping his hands. Many peopleflocked to the road to see thecouple. Among the people were servants ofthe rich prince. They called thefarmer aside, and offered himmoney and cattle if he would leavethe girl.Without a moment's hesitation, hetook the money and the cattle, andwalked off. The servants dressed the girl in fineclothes and took her to the palace,straight to the prince.Before long, her parents were calledand a ceremony was organised tojoin the two in marriage.

In the busy city of Nairobi, far away from a caring life at home, lived a group of homeless boys. They welcomed each day just as it came.On one morning, the boys were packing their mats after sleeping on cold pavements. To chase away the cold they lit a fire with rubbish.Among the group of boys was Magozwe. He was the youngest. When Magozwe's parents died, he was only five years old. He went to live with his uncle. This man did not care about the child. He did not give Magozwe enough food. He made the boy do a lot of hard work. If Magozwe complained or questioned, his uncle beat him. When Magozwe asked if he could go to school, his uncle beat him and said, "You're too stupid to learn anything."After three years of this treatment Magozwe ran away from his uncle. He started living on the street. Street life was difficult and most of the boys struggled daily just to get food. Sometimes they were arrested, sometimes they were beaten. When they were sick, there was no one to help.The group depended on the little money they got from begging, and from selling plastics and other recycling.Life was even more difficult because of fights with rival groups who wanted control of parts of the city. One day while Magozwe was looking through the dustbins, he found an old tattered storybook. He cleaned the dirt from it and put it in his sack.Every day after that he would take out the book and look at the pictures. He did not know how to read the words. The pictures told the story of a boy who grew up to be a pilot.Magozwe would daydream of being a pilot. Sometimes, he imagined that he was the boy in the story. It was cold and Magozwe was standing on the road begging. A man walked up to him. "Hello, I'm Thomas. I work near here, at a place where you can get something to eat," said the man.He pointed to a yellow house with a blue roof. "I hope you will go there to get some food?" he asked.Magozwe looked at the man, and then at the house. "Maybe," he said, and walked away. Over the months that followed, the homeless boys got used to seeing Thomas around. He liked to talk to people, especially people living on the streets.Thomas listened to the stories of people's lives. He was serious and patient, never rude or disrespectful. Some of the boys started going to the yellow and blue house to get food at midday. Magozwe was sitting on the pavement looking at his picture book when Thomas sat down next to him."What is the story about?" asked Thomas."It's about a boy who becomes a pilot," replied Magozwe."What's the boy's name?" asked Thomas."I don't know, I can't read," said Magozwe quietly. When they met, Magozwe began to tell his own story to Thomas. It was the story of his uncle and why he ran away.Thomas didn't talk a lot, and he didn't tell Magozwe what to do, but he always listened carefully.Sometimes they would talk while they ate at the house with the blue roof. Around Magozwe's tenth birthday, Thomas gave him a new storybook. It was a story about a village boy who grew up to be a famous soccer player.Thomas read that story to Magozwe many times, until one day he said, "I think it's time you went to school and learned to read. What do you think?" Thomas explained that he knew of a place where children could stay, and go to school. Magozwe thought about this new place, and about going to school. What if his uncle was right and he was too stupid to learn anything?What if they beat him at this new place? He was afraid. "Maybe it is better to stay living on the street," he thought. He shared his fears with Thomas. Over time the man reassured the boy that life could be better at the new place. And so Magozwe moved into a room in a house with a green roof. He shared the room with two other boys.Altogether there were ten children living at that house. Along with Auntie Cissy and her husband, three dogs, a cat, and an old goat. Magozwe started school and it was difficult. He had a lot to catch up. Sometimes he wanted to give up.But he thought about the pilot and the soccer player in the storybooks. Like them, he did not give up. Magozwe was sitting in the yard at the house with the green roof, reading a storybook from school. Thomas came up and sat next to him."What is the story about?" asked Thomas."It's about a boy who becomes a teacher," replied Magozwe."What's the boy's name?" asked Thomas."His name is Magozwe," said Magozwe with a smile.

I am hungry!I want a banana! I go to the tree.I pluck bananas. I have bananas, now. I eat a banana.I eat two bananas.I eat three bananas.I eat many bananas. I am not hungry, now.I have a hundred bananas What will I do? I will mix banana and sugar.I will make banana halwa! I will eat banana halwa.I am happy!

Welcome to the 2nd part of Hacking Is Life.So lets continue with a young mind with a lot of power that could change the world, Alex a school kid who is 12 years old when he made a virus an online software as you read in the 1st part of this e- book so go and check out the first version! ............................................................Next day when he checked the victim count he was shocked! It was 99945213 people who were the victims! Now he could use there data use there computer! Access there Gmail, Facebook, Twitter accounts! And 4 foolish people of 99945213 people gave there bank accounts so Alex decided to access there webcam, bank account, and social networking sites to check out are they poor or so much richWhen he accessed the first persons webcam and saw his picture and his house he saw that his bank account only had 5 $ and he was from U. S. A and his video that was coming was as that he applied for a IPHONE 6 plus for free (which was Alex, s virus window loop ) he too said that "we will sell that iphone and then we can do our dad's operation '' he said this to her sister :( Alex thought that he should not take his money . Alex could hack bitcoins which are called the internet currency so he hacked his computer again and made a window that popped up saying "you won 300000 $ " that Alex made and then when the victim clicked to the button what to do now? Alex donated 300000 $ to his bank account! Alex is good too! Then the victim was happy and then he went to a hospital's site saying please give money for the operation . All the left 3 were the most greedy people so what? Alex took there all money! Because all of 3 people were hackers :P it's ironic a little.The time he was doing this all, someone tracked him . When Alex went out of his house for some fresh air, then he saw a person running to him and then the person caught him and injected something to him using a injection! When he woke he saw three people who were standing, those three people told him to hack some bitcoins! Alex replied "you can track me and can't hack some bitcoins shame on you!" one of then said "you ... You .. Knew it?"Yeah said Alex . Then one of them said just hack! He got a laptop and put that in a table and said hack using it! Alex replied "ok" and you know if a hacker got a laptop anything could happen! So yeah L. O. L he remade computer operating systems and that software could match his computer's data to it you know what I am saying. Then he destroyed the computer's every single software and before that he tracked himself that where he is and booked a taxi silently, after all this he shutted the laptop down andSaw that there were 4 people, one was in the bathroom and second was talking to someone and third was just walking and fourth was in the next to that room then you know what Alex did? He shutted the laptop down and with full power he threw it at the head of the second person and when the third person noticed it there was a foke near him he throw to the third person and then he locked the toilets door and slowly went out and locked all the doors from the outside and then ran and caught the taxi and when he returned home his mother father gave the money to the driver and said to Alex where was you from these three hour? Alex replied "at a friend's house"Wait for the next part....................................

Basetsana Makgalemele was bornin a township called Soweto. Shewas her parents' third daughter.They named her Basetsana, whichmeans "girls". In Tswana culture,calling your daughter that meansyour next child will be a boy. Thisactually happened. Her parents'next child was a boy. Her parents,big sisters and younger brother allcalled her Bassie for short. When she was a child, Bassie wasvery shy. She liked to sing anddance in her room on her own.One day at school netball practice,the coach told two girls to pickteams. Bassie stood on the edge ofthe field hoping someone wouldsay, "Come play with us!" Butnobody wanted her on their team.Little did they know, Bassie wouldbecome one of the most populargirls in the country. On weekends, she and her brotherand sisters helped their teachermom and bus driver dad to pay thebills. They made sandwiches to sellat local soccer matches. They triedto sell everything as fast as theycould so they had time to play withthe other children when the gamewas over. By the time Bassie turned 16, shewas a beautiful young woman. Shewas so beautiful that she won twobeauty competitions in one year:Miss Soweto and Miss Black SouthAfrica.But Bassie was not only beautiful onthe outside. She was also beautifulon the inside. Even though she wasa beauty queen, she still caredabout the community where shegrew up. Bassie was also very smart. Sheworked hard at school, especially onher favourite subject: science. Herhard work was rewarded when shewas the top science student at herschool in matric. That's not all, shewas also Head Girl. The shy littlegirl was now one of the mostpopular girls in school. Bassie's father always encouragedhis children to read. He gave her abook called The Power of PositiveThinking. From that book, she learntthat being optimistic is the key tomaking your dreams a reality. Shedreamt of winning Miss SouthAfrica. Not only did that dreamcome true, she was even crownedFirst Princess in the Miss Worldcompetition! Bassie's mother was her role model.Bassie described her mom as a"fierce, hardworking Xhosa womanwho did not suffer fools". She was ateacher and Bassie had plans tofollow in her footsteps, but thingsdon't always go as planned! Afterwinning Miss South Africa, shebecame a TV presenter. She wasn'ta teacher, but like her mom, shewas hardworking. Her career in TVled to her opening her owntelevision production company. Shewas now a successful businesswoman. Bassie's motto is: "To whom muchis given, much is expected." Shebelieves that you are given a gift sothat you can give to others. Bassiedoes this by volunteering, giving ofher time and money and evencreating jobs. She is involved withprojects and charities to helppeople in her community. One thatis very close to her heart is theNelson Mandela Institute. Bassie had a very close relationshipwith Nelson Mandela. When she wascrowned Miss South Africa, Madibawrote her a letter ofcongratulations. In the letter, hecalled her "our Queen". They shareda passion for children and educationand the belief that an educatednation can help fight poverty. Bassie married Romeo Kumalo andbecame known as BasetsanaKumalo.Together they established theRomeo & Basetsana Kumalo FamilyFoundation. The foundation looksafter orphans - children who don'thave a mom and dad. Bassie has had to learn to balanceher busy work and family life.She has her own company calledBasetsana Women InvestmentHoldings. She and Romeo havethree children, two boys and a girl.Bassie sees her role as mother toher children as her "highest callingand greatest privilege". Bassie says the secret to hersuccess is "courage, determination,passion and staying committed tothe course". Despite all hersuccess, she remains humble whiletrying to make the world a betterplace.Being beautiful on the outside is notwhat makes you a beautiful person.It's a heart filled with love andgenerosity. And that's why Bassie isour beautiful Queen.

Last week I received alot of letters. On Monday my doctorwrote a letter to myteacher. Thabisile is sick. Shemust stay at home. On Tuesday I got aletter from my class. Get well soon Thabisile! On Wednesday I got aletter from my bestfriend. I drew this picture foryou. Love from Dudu. On Thursday I got aletter from my mother.

What should I do for my project?Dia stared at the the birds on the mango tree. Suddenly, Amma called Dia and Pradeep to eat lunch. The sweet smell of Gujia's, Dokhla and Thepla gave Dia an idea. Dia thought about doing her project on" The India Gate." Or "The Desert's of Rajasthan". Or "The Dancing Peacok of Mysuru." But she did'nt know what to choose. So she asked Dadhi for help. Dadhi told Dia to do her project on" Diwali". So Dia agreed. So when Dia submitted her project in class, everyone clapped their hands. Mrs Shamena, her class teacher asked her from where did she get such a wonderful project. Dia replied that her Dadhi had given her the idea. It was a wonderful project.

Mittai Lal was very fond of sweets. He was fat and round like a laddu.He would stop by the halwayi every day, to eat ladoos, Jalebis and Jamuns. One night while resting after dinner, he craved for Gulab jamuns.He soon ran to the halwayi, hoping to eat yummy Jamuns. But alas! The shop was closed.So Mittai Lal returned home sad, his tummy growling. He went to bed and soon fell asleep.He was dreaming of sweets even in his sleep. He dreamt that he was standing atop a mountain of laddus, surrounded by jalebis.A little far away, he could see a pool full of Jamuns. The sight of syrupy jamuns mesmerized him.So, he greedily jumped from the mountain of laddus to the pool of Jamuns. Thud!! He fell off from his cot.“Ouch! “ He screamed in pain from the fall.Mittai Lal's sweet dream was broken, so was his arm!

Why is the baby crying? I think she is hungry. Why is the boy sad? I think he is missing hisfather. Why is the girl happy? She has a new dress. Why is the old manlaughing? He read a good joke. Why is the lady smiling? Her children are readingquietly. What is this ladyfeeling? I think she is feelingshy.

Bunty loves to play withbutterflies... ...and with birds. She loves to play withpaper boats. She also likes to makesand castles. When Bunty goes backhome, her mother asksher to clean up. Sherefuses. "I hate soap!" shescreams. One night, she has adream. The germs areall around her castle,and are attacking her. Bunty is chased by thegerms.She runs for her life andscreams, "Help...help!" Suddenly, Soap KingBubbly appears."Bunty, don't be afraid,"he says."Go attack the germs!"the Soap King ordershis army of bubbles. The army of bubbleschases the germs away. These days, Bunty likesto use soap, and shebrushes and scrubsherself clean.

Ramu a 5 year old boy lives in a small village along with his grand father. Ramu loves animals a lot. Ramu's best friend name is rabbit its name is raj.They both eat, sleep and play together. One day Ramu, Raj and Ramu's friend sita went to forest to get orange fruits. After some time in forest Raj found his old friend Tortise name Akash left the path and went along with is friend Akash. They both are playing and enjoying in the forest. Suddenly a Lion came in to forest all animals got afraid and went away except Raj and Akash.Both are looking at lion with smiley faces. Then lion came to raj and akash asked them why you people are not going away you don't want live on this earth.Then raj replied to lion with smile that we are most intelligent friends in this world why we should get afraid of someone.Lion got angry and said that i am only one intelligent in this whole world.If you prove me both are intelligent then I will not eat both of you. Raj agreed to lion condition and requested lion that if you lost this challenge in addition to our lives you need to take us orange tree to meet our friends (Ramu and Sita).Lion agreed to raj's condition.Raj said that we both ask you 1 question each if you should answer both the questions if not you should accept that we are intelligent. Raj's question to lion-Can you tell me one name who are not afraid of you in this entire forest.Lion answered with proud is there no animal in this forest which is not afraid of me. Now you Akash what is your question-said lion.Then Akash slowly asked the second question. What name of your best friend in forest. After hearing to second question lion thought that how fools this 2 are and answered with proud and loud smile my best friend is tiger.Then Raj so you are lost the bet then lion shouted on raj how it is possible.Raj explained that in first question you answered that every one is afraid of you. If everyone is afraid then how come tiger will be your friend. Friend's never get afraid of each other. With raj's explanation lion got impressed and accepted that both are intelligent friends took both them to orange tree to meet ramu and sita.All of them met and went back to home with fruits and happiness.

Once upon a time, in Joburg'sOrange Grove, a little girl calledPhylliswas born into the world.Two people in love, huggedtheir sweet little babe. No-oneknew then,what a dancer they'd made. By the time she was four,she had learned very quick.She impressed all her teachers,with her ducky feet flicks!Before school and after,she danced everyday.Nothing pleased Phyllis,more than ballet. When the world was readyfor Phyllis at fifteen,She arrived in big, old London,ready to live her dream.She said goodbye to all herfriends.She was ready to start fresh.Watch out Royal Ballet School!Phyllis is here to impress. When Phyllis danced SwanLake,it was fit to show the Queen!After years of pirouetting,she was ready to be seen.Dancing for the audience,she turned and twirled about.Look! Everyone is smiling!See how they clap and shout! From Mexico to Canada.From the USA to France.Phyllis travelled far and wide,so the world could see herdance.With the Royal Ballet Company,and her ballerina friends,she spread her love for ballet.She never wanted it to end. Phyllis always knew,that dance was in her heart.But she longed to return homeagain,and make a fresh new start.So she leaped and bounded,back to her beautiful land.Her ballerina roots wereregrown.She was once more SouthAfrican. Dancing wasn't just for fun,as Phyllis always knew.She'd work at dancing day andnight,and with hard work she grew.Always smiling, always trying,through good times andthrough tough,Phyllis always did her best.She couldn't get enough. Romeo and Juliet,Swan Lake and Giselle.Phyllis danced these for thepeople:graceful, tireless, well.With partners Gary Burneand Eduard Greyling too,her magnificence inspired theaudience.To her, flowers they threw. Reward comes easily,when you put yourself to thetest.Phyllis came to realise this,once she was called 'The Best.'She was awarded 'PrimaBallerina Assoluta.'The greatest dancer of them all!Phyllis would be forever known.She wanted nothing more. Goodness! What a catch!Phyllis met her loving partner.His name was Phillip Boyd.He was another dancer.Together they were married.and together they would dance.No-one could be bettermatched,given half the chance! Though they had no children,Phyllis and Phillip were neversad.They two of them found anotherwayto help other Mums and Dads.They started Dance For All,a special school for dance.So that children with no money,could also learn to prance! She left a legacy of dance,and incredible success.Her magic was passed on toothersto help them become their best.Her students spread across theworld,inspired by her ducky feet.They dance on while we watch,dreaming from our seats.

A little girl got Teddy Bear and a Barbie doll on her birthday. Her friends gifted her toys. From that day she is playing with that Teddy bear and the Barbie. After coming from school she takes the Teddy bear and gives it a Flying kiss . Then her mother saw this practice and one day her mother stopped her by saying why are you doing that. O! Mummy this is my favorite teddy and this is my favorite Barbie. Can't I give them a flying kiss. Then mother told you can but you should give them a proper wash before playing them.The little girl did not follow what her mother asked her to do. Next day, After coming from school she slept and her mother throwed away both the toys. When she got up and started looking for the toys, could not find them. Then her mother asked what are you searching for. I am searching for my two toys then her mother told her when you were sleeping I throwed them away as they are very dirty.Then the little girl asked her mother to buy two new toys, as she missed both her favorite toys. My dear daughter, be ready by 5 0'clock. We will go to exhibition for rides, to play games and to the toys shop in the end, before starting for home. Then the girl and mother went as planned and brought food items and Toys – Rabbit, Tiger and a Turtle. From then on, the little girl kept her toys neat and tidy.Then her mother told you are my lovely and favorite daughter in the whole world. She asked why is it so mom, and mother told you kept your promise and doing your home work regularly and keeping your books and toys very neat and your teachers are told me you are behaving very well in the school and you got very good marks in Quarterly exams.Now I am going to give surprise, saying this, her mother gave her a new Teddy bear and a Barbie doll set t-ind %

There was a greatbuilder in Kabubbuvillage. He built many houses inthe village. But he was sleeping in a bad hut. The village people talked about him every day. One day he got somemoney. He bought cement, sand, iron sheets, bricks and nails. He built a beautiful flat house witha fence. His friends rejoiced withhim. He prepared for a party,invited his friends, they ate ,drankand danced. He got many presents.

A girl went to a place, that was a forest. When she went there flood came because of rain. There was a bear, that was watching that girl thinking that what she is doing there. All of a sudden fishes have started raining from the sky and bear started catching the fishes. The girl saw the bear and was frightened and fell down.After some time she woke up because of the rain drops. Bear was good. It didn't do any harm to the girl. The girl was hungry, she didn't had anything to eat. Bear gave so many fishes to her & they became friends. Next day the rain was coming and coming, they didn't had any shelter for hiding. Bear was telling that tomorrow is my birthday and i think tomorrow will also rain. She forgot that she had a birthday cake with her. She remembered that she had a cake. Next day, rain stopped and the girl asked bear to close the eyes, after some time (after arranging the birthday cake) asked bear to open the eyes and showed the table with cake. Bear never saw anything like this before, so it was very happy. Bear blew the candles, as the girl sang happy birthday song. The girl never left the bear, she lived along with the bear, lifelong. They lived happily.

Mama wakes Chinnu and Puttu in the morning. " It's Sunday children. Time to have fun" she says.Initially the kids are still in their sleep mood but soon all that changes when they find themselves in the cute baby water tubs. After a quick brushing session of teeth and a glass of milk with a fruit gulped down, the kids who were reluctant to take a bath soon jump into the tubs seeing water toys and lots of water. Mama is soon left wondering if these kids intend to come out of the tubs at all after some time. Soon Mama joins them in the fun and lets Chinnu and Puttu to run around, play hide and seek and have a fun filled bathing playing activity.

Once upon a time therelived a boy calledJoseph who likedfootball.He could kick the ballusing either of his twolegs. Joseph plays the ballusing his head. Sometimes he controlsthe ball using his chest. One day he dribbledthrough the defendersusing the outside of hisfoot. If the ball comes fromthe air, he controls itvery well using histhigh. He also dribbles the ballvery well using theinside of his foot. He traps the ball usinghis instep. One time he volleyedthe ball using hisinstep. But he could not scorebecause the keepercaught the ball. The keeper alsopunched the ball whichwas shot by Joseph.

Once upon a time, there lived a tortoise, who had workedvery hard during his entire life. When he retired, he received a nice lump sum of money. He decided that he would buy a big piece of land with themoney, and become a farmer. News spread all over the village that Tortoise was looking forland to buy. When Hare heard the news, he had an idea! He rushed tosee Tortoise and said:"Mr Tortoise! I can help you find land to buy. Come with me!" That very same day, Hare took Tortoise to visit a plot. Hepointed to a large field and said:"I own all this land!" Tortoise was impressed.After bargaining for a while, they agreed ona price and Tortoise paid for the land. The next day, Tortoise got up bright and early. He gatheredsome of his friends together and they went with their tools tovisit the farm. They wanted to prepare it for planting. When they reached, all they could see was water!"Where is your land?" they asked, unable to contain theirlaughter. Tortoise realised that hehad been tricked.Hare had sold him abeach, and when thetide came in, all thatwas left was the sea.There was no farm land. Tortoise went straight away to see Elephant, who was thehighest judge in the land, and told him what had happened.Elephant ordered lion to go and find Hare and bring him tothe court. When Hare heard lion coming, heran out and said: "I am so happy tosee you lion, but I have to run. Wilddogs have invaded our village!"As soon as he was out of sight,Hare ran from house to house,howling like a wild dog. Lion could hear the howling wild dogs coming from alldirections, and shaking with fear, he ran away. And hare too ran away,with all of Tortoisesmoney!Tortoise was sad, but hehad many friends whohelped him find anotherpiece of land to farm.

Viva, a cute little girl from a village called Kinwat. She goes to the school regularly.She enjoys her journey towards the school. She is curious to know about the things that she comes across daily. Her teacher teaches her about flowers, butterflies , clouds and many more interesting things in the nature. Viva is fascinated by all the things that her teacher teaches her daily. One day her teacher asks her to observe things in the surroundings. Viva is happy to see those butterflies, flower blooming , clouds and small plants around her.She can actually find what all she had learnt in the class in her surroundings . This experiences make her the "The active pupil" because of her curious nature in the class. All the other pupils takes her as inspiration to learn new things.

There were two girls, they were best friends. Their names were Salima and Begum. They watched each other so many times in mirror and said we both look same. They played, worked, ate, slept together. One day Begum and her family shifted to Hyderabad. They two cried for each other. Salima also shifted to Hyderabad, the two of them's houses were near, but they don't know that. They searched for each other. They lived in the hut areas. They two found each other at their houses. They were so happy and hugged. They lived happily ever after.

Two little hands to hold. Two little feet to kick. Two little eyes to see. Two little ears to hear. And two loving arms to HUG!

Once there lived a happy family, they had two children. One was a girl called Mavis in the age of10, the other was a boy called Danim in the age of 8. Mavis is a very intelligent, kind and beautiful girl she loves to play chess with her brother because she always wins against him. while Danim is a very naughty boy how really hated to play chess with his sister and also hated school. Every saturday Danim and Mavis got 10 kr each as pocket money. Mavis put her money into her piggy bank storing it but Danim use to spend it the very second he got his money. One day asusual Mavis and Danim got there pocket money, Mavis told Danim to store his money too but he refused and said “I will buy a big bar of tasty chocolate!” . On Danim's way to the chocolate shop his money fell out of his hands and rolled into an extremely narrow hole on the road. He put his hand into the hole in hopes of finding his money but he could not find any of his money. Worse than that was his hand got stuck inside the hole! . There was lot of traffic because it was the rush hour, and Danim was very scared that a car might come and crash him. Then a lot of people huddled around Danim to see what has happened ...some of the people were stout , some were fat and some were extremely thin. As Danim hand was stuck, a sharp pain hit his arm with a clear shot . At that moment a kind-hearted lady entered the crowd. She was very kind and loved to help other people. Then after a little while knowing what she was doing she walked to the front and kneeled beside Danim, the lady said “ I will help you”, Danim said “thank you” . Then she said to the crowd to call the firetruck so a stout woman who had an Iphone 6 called the fire truck. The lady rubbed butter and soap to Danim's hand while they were They tried and tried but it didn't work then after half an hour, two firefighters showed up. They used a special kind of grease to get Danim'sHand out of the hole. Danim felt relief about his arm and he was not sad about the chocolate and why should he be? Because the lady who helped him was the owner of the chocolate shop and gave him two big boxes of tasty chocolate. He liked this experience more than any other experience. He went home very happily and told the whole story to his family. Mavis said “now will you store your money?”and this time Danim said “I will Mavis”. And then they lived happily again.

This story starts in the old times when animals and people lived together. In those days people did not have the right to fire. They ate their food raw. Only Lion had the power of fire. The people and the animals came together to make a plan. "What can we do to get the fire from Lion so that we can cook our food?" they asked.They decided to wait until evening and started singing and singing, clapping and clapping, calling everyone together."Come dance with us.Come dance with us.Come dance with us." Many animals came from the bush to join in the dancing and singing. Lion brought his fire sticks. He rubbed the sticks, rubbed and rubbed. Soon a little smoke appeared beneath the sticks. Lion blew on the smoke and added some dry grass.A little flame appeared and everyone brought a piece of wood. Soon everyone was dancing around a fire. Rabbit was a cunning and fast animal. The people said to him, "While we are singing here and while Lion is dancing with us, you must take his fire sticks and run."So Rabbit grabbed Lion's fire sticks and ran. He did not make it because Lion caught up with him and brought the fire sticks back. The lion sang a boastful song:"To me it does not matter.I don't have a problem.I can eat you with hair,I can eat you without hair.I don't have a problem.All of you are food to me." Springbok could run and jump very fast. The people said to him, "While Lion is dancing and singing here with us, you must grab his fire sticks and run." When they were dancing and singing, Springbok grabbed the fire sticks and jumped away into the veld. But Lion said, "Why do I not hear the clippety-clop clippety-clop of Springbok's hooves behind me?" Lion turned and saw Springbok running into the veld with his fire sticks. So he ran after Springbok, caught him and came back with his fire sticks.Again, Lion sang his boastful song. Then the people whispered to each other. They said, "Let us ask Duiker. He is small and very fast." "Duiker," they said, "while Lion is dancing and singing here with us, you must grab his fire sticks and run away." When they were dancing around the fire, Duiker grabbed Lion's fire sticks and ran into the veld. But Lion said, "Why do I not hear Duiker snort-snorting behind me as before?"He turned around and chased after little Duiker who was leaping into the veld. Lion caught up with him and returned to the fire with his sticks. Again, Lion sang his boastful song."To me it does not matter.I don't have a problem.I can eat you with hair,I can eat you without hair.I don't have a problem.All of you are food to me." "Oh," sighed the people, "Which animal can help us now? Ostrich has the longest legs of all, let us ask him." They explained the plan to Ostrich and he grabbed Lion's fire sticks this time. Lion said, "Why do I not hear Ostrich's high singing voice behind me anymore?" He looked around, saw Ostrich and chased after him. After a long time, Lion returned with a tired face, for Ostrich ran too fast for him. "From this day on," he said, "I will not leave any of you alone. I will hunt you and chase you and eat you!"And this is how Lion came to be everyone's enemy and how people got the power of fire.

Hello, I am Sujata.I lead a very busy life. I find new kingdoms, solve new mysteries, make new friends, and save them when in trouble too.All in day's job. Meet the new friend I met today. King Bholu. King Bholu is the king of a lost kingdom, Bholuland where everyone gets lost. And King Bholu is scared that he will lose his job.You see, Bholu is getting blamed as the King who has lost direction. He is in a fine mess indeed. And guess who he comes to... for help?Of course! You know it. King Bholu hates getting lost. There are strange creatures just outside their kingdom. Grey coloured fishes that drop as rain and make him smell, well, quite "fishy." And whenever he gets lost, they "rain" on him. Pelt him, liberally.Poor Bholu doesn't know what he hates more - the rain, the ghastly fishes, the smell they leave on him or simply just getting lost, every day.Why can't he just find his way like normal kings do? Bholu is the King of a beautiful Kingdom. There are magical trees and a clear blue lake that plays hide and seek with the orange Sun.I want to help Bholu find his way and keep his kingdom safe from the raining fishes. I need to think of a spectacular, fantastic, super-duper, creative idea.Can you help me? Yes. That's it. An idea!App my way! Of course.I got the perfect way to help Bholu. MOOGLE MAPS!Guess what, just 15 minutes of Moogle Maps training, and King Bholu is all set now to find a new way to manage his kingdom. Moogle maps makes sure you can never lose your way. With Moogle Maps at his service, he will never get lost again.And the app now comes with a new animal friendly language that each animal can customize and set for themselves. Shall I tell you a little secret?It's King Bholu's birthday tomorrow. I am so happy he won't lose the direction to his own birthday party anymore.You want to attend? I have heard it's going to be a grand affair with lots of cakes and no grey fishes. (He still has nightmares, you see).Just follow the Moogle Map. And you can join his yummy birthday party, just in time for blowing the candles! So, another long and happy day.So happy Bholu found the way.Well, that rhymed! As for me, well I told you what a busy life I lead right? I READ. I READ. I READ. That's how I solve new mysteries everyday. Well, that was my story for today. Tomorrow, I will read a new book to you. A new adventure. A new story. Will you come and listen?

It had been raining for days, andeveryone was grumpy. Everyoneexcept Sizwe, who woke up with asmile every morning."Yoh! Sizwe! That smile is magic!"said Gogo."Is it for me?"Sizwe clapped his hand over hismouth."But it's MY smile, Gogo," hewhispered. His mother laughed. "Sizwe! A smileis something you can give awaywithout losing it. Look!"She lifted him up to the mirror.There was his smile, just as brightas before. It was time to go out. Mamabuttoned up Sizwe's raincoat, andoff they went, through the rain, tothe library.Down the street, Sizwe's best friendZanele stood at the window of herhouse, looking sadly at the rain.Sizwe felt his smile creeping,creeping up.Before he knew it, his smile LEAPTout, and flew across the garden toZanele. Zanele held on tightly to the smile –it was far too precious to let it getaway.As Sizwe walked away to thelibrary, Zanele's doorbell rang. Itwas the postman, with a letter fromher favourite cousin.Zanele was so happy, that the smilebounced up, and beamed out at thepostman."Thank you, Mister Postman!" shesaid. Zanele's smile was the brightestthing the postman had seen allmorning. It kept him warm as hetrudged off through the rain.He came to a big house. Inside thegate, a dog was spinning around incircles, barking, barking, barking.He was so silly, that the postmancouldn't help smiling.The smile bounced through the gatewith a glitter of glee. The dog stopped barking. Hepricked up his ears and wagged histail. Then he turned and ran back tothe house with the precious, warmsmile.A bent old man opened the door."Oh, no! You can't come inside.You're all wet!" he told the dog. Butright away, the smile beamed up atthe old man. The old man stood a little straighter."Eish," he said, "Who cares if it'sraining? Let's go for a walk, boy!"And off they went, splashing in thepuddles.There, at the zebra crossing, stoodgrumpy Mrs Makabela, the trafficcop. She looked cold, and wet, andmiserable.The old man knew just what to do."Morning, Mrs Makabela!" he called,and smiled his biggest, brightestsmile.But Mrs Makabela... did not smileback. Standing in the rain for days can make a face sad, sad, sad.But a smile is a magical thing and, by now, the smile was sostrong, and so bright, that it was very hard to keep inside.It didn't work right away,but bit by tiny bit,it began to creep out until,at last...! A great, big smile lit up MrsMakabela's face!The school bell rang, and childrenran to cross the road. Mrs Makabelaput up her sign, and smiled, andsmiled, at each and every child. The children smiled at their momsand dads, and their gogos and tatasand brothers and sisters. Theysmiled at the bus driver and thegreengrocer, and Mme Makau, whowent off to smile at her husband,who smiled at the mayor...The smiles leapt and rolled andbeamed and gleamed untilEVERYONE was smiling and gigglingand laughing out loud in the rain. In the library, everything was quietexcept for the sound of the rain."It's time to go," said Sizwe'smother, closing her book."Aw, mom!" said Sizwe, who hadrun out of smiles. But as they stepped out into thestreet...WHAT A SIGHT!Everyone in town was there!Everyone!And they were ALL smiling! The smiles bounced around andbeamed at Sizwe. They warmedhim, and tickled him, and crept up,up, up from his toes... to the TOP ofhis head. He was so full ofhappiness that the smile burst out,brilliant and beaming bright.And something changed. The dark,gloomy, rainy afternoon didn't seemso dark anymore.Could it be...? YES!The clouds parted, and the warmsun shone down on them, with thebiggest, brightest, most brilliantsmile of all.

It happened one year that the rain didn't fall. The trees dried up and died. The riversdisappeared and the water evaporated. People and animals began dying from hunger andthirst. Lion and Elephant as the chief animals got together to discuss the situation. Lion said,"We're going to end up dying from thirst. Let's call everyone together and discuss the ideaof digging a well. Elephant agreed and went off to spread the news to all the animals. All the animals except the hare got together to discuss the situation. Lion said, "Look, mybrothers and sisters, this year, the rain has not fallen. Everyone is dying from hunger andthirst. Let us now make a plan to dig a well so that we might all be able to drink from it." All the animals agreed and immediately grabbed hoes, shovels and picks and starteddigging. They dug and dug. And they dug some more. Finally they hit water. Lion said, "Whydid Hare not come to dig this well? He most certainly will not drink from this water!" Later Hare came and saw the well. He said, "Tipite, tipite at the well!" He heard nothing. Sohe went in, drank some water and splashed around for a while. The next day, when the animals came they saw that their well was a big mess. The waterwas nothing but mud. They asked, "Who would do such a thing?" Someone said, "I bet itwas Hare. When we were digging the well he was nowhere to be found." And so the animals decided to leave a guard at the well. Theychose Baboon to keep an eye on things. Baboon was at the wellwhen Hare came at night saying, "Tipite! Tipite! by the water!"Baboon replied, "Pitani!" So Hare came over and greeted Baboon,"I have come, my friend, and I bring that which the great ones liketo eat!" Baboon replied, "Come, let's see what it is." Hare had some honey. He went over to Baboon, "Yes, my friend, try some of this!" Haregave him the honey. Then he drew some water from the well and drank it. Just as Hare wasleaving, Hyena arrived and he saw Hare. The next day, Hyena went and told all the animals that Hare had taken water from the well.So they chose Turtle to guard the well. Hare arrived at night, saying, "Tipite by the well!"When he didn't hear any reply he said: "I am Hare! I've come to drink water." When Turtle had arrived at the well earlier that night, she had hidden herself among therocks. She looked just like another rock. As soon as Hare started to go into the water, Turtlegrabbed Hare by the leg. Turtle didn't say a word, she just sat there holding on until the suncame up. When the animals arrived, they saw that Turtle had captured Hare. They called the rest ofthe animals to decide what to do with Hare. When all the animals were assembled, Lionasked them, "What shall we do with this Hare?" Turtle said, "Elephant should grab him with her trunk and beat him on the rocks." All theother animals agreed. Then Hare said, "O Great Lion, you know that hares don't die if youhit them on rocks. The Hare will only die if he is thrown into ash." So Lion told Elephant tothrow Hare into ash. After Hare was completely covered with ash, Elephant picked him up and threw him. WhenHare landed he made a big cloud of dust. The dust was everywhere. When the dust settled, the animalslooked around. Hare was gone!They realised that Hare had trickedthem again.

It was a very surprisingly cool and peaceful day. The day appeared to be even more charming as there was a beautiful view of the calm, blue sea. The sea was glistening in the sunshine. On the shore of the beach lived an explorer, who was very adventurous and daring. Her name was Martina. She had traveled to many islands and had studied the different species of flora and fauna there. She had been taking a walk on the shore when she found a bottle with a paper inside it. The paper was a map of an island within the pacific ocean with a variety of beautiful species that interested Martina a lot. She immediately planned to travel to that island along with some of her fellow adventurers - Julie and Sam. It was very comfortable for Martina to travel any where as her friend Sam had an enormous and beautiful ship that sailed very peacefully without leading them to any obstacles. They had very soon boarded the magnificent ship and had packed all their required books, cameras and set off into the sea. Adventures started for Martina very soon because she saw many dolphins swimming beside the ship. At midday, Martina and Julie decided to go diving to see the different species of fish and plants.And alas! they were surrounded by spectacular coral reefs and found clown fish in between some corals. They saw sea anemone, puffer fish and a rookery of seals. Martina was never so happy to see the sea in its best natural, lively and colorful form.They had spent the night in the ship, still travelling across the sea. The next day she was awoken by a flock of very loud seagulls, diving into the sea for their yummy feast. Sam and his ship had co- operated very well enabling them to reach their destination quite in time for their adventure! Very soon Julie saw a mass of land above the waters of the pacific ocean and declared that this must be the island they all had started this journey for. Very soon they had dropped the anchor of the ship and began walking deep into the island. This island was very mysterious. Near the shore, the land was marshy with trees that had aerial roots and where there was water flooded in. As they went deeper into the island they saw many species of birds of paradise hanging upside down on the branches of evergreen trees. They also saw a wide variety of insectivorous and orchid plants. It was truly a wonderful experience for Martina and her friends. As they went deeper with the help of a compass, they found many rock caves and shelters which had pictures depicting the lives of the early human beings on this planet. The paintings were made using the coloring material available on the island. As they went into the caves they had seen the rocky wall and tried to see if they could find any more paintings when suddenly Julie tripped over something and fell onto the ground. As soon as she got up, she found many tools and weapons made of stone which belonged to people of the past. After visiting the caves, they started back in their ship to Martina's house. Martina had a really exciting trip as she could see so many different things in her journey.The End!!!!

There lived a girl named Cinderella. she is a sweet girl who had a bad step mother and two naughty sisters who always trouble her. She does all the work in the home. She loves singing. She had two little friends which live on the tree. Those birds look really very beautiful with blue shiny feathers. They used to help Cinderella to manage the work. They also even sing songs to make her happy. One day the king announced that all the beautiful girls should gather at the palace so that he can select the most beautiful girl for his son's marriage. All the girls in the kingdom felt very excited to participate. On the day of event every girl in the kingdom got themselves ready to impress the prince. The two sisters of Cinderella also went to the event. Cinderella also wanted to attend the event. But her step mother did not allowed her to go. Cinderella even did not have any good dress to wear. She felt very sad and started crying. An angel who was watching Cinderella gifted her with beautiful long frock and lovely shoes. Cinderella thanked her a lot and attended the event. The prince got impressed with her beauty and married her. Cinderella got married to the prince and lead a happy life thereafter.

This story is in the old timewhen people and animals livedtogether. At that time, peopledid not have fire. They ate theirfood raw. Only Lion had fire. The people and animals wantedfire. The people and the animalshad a meeting. "We want tocook our food'" they said. "Howcan we get the fire from Lion?" In the evening they startedsinging and dancing. Theycalled to all the animals, "comedance with us, come dance withus!" Many animals came to jointhem. Lion came too. He brought hisfire sticks. He rubbed his stickstogether. He rubbed and rubbeduntil at last there was a littlesmoke. Lion blew on the sticks,and then there was a little fire.Everyone brought a stick forthat fire. Then there was a bigfire. The people and the animals were so happy! They sang anddanced around the fire. The people and the animals wanted to take Lion's firesticks. They thought of a good plan. They called rabbit."We all know that you are very clever and very fast." WhenLion is dancing and singing, you must take his fire sticksand run!" So Rabbit took Lion's fire sticksand ran as fast as he could. ButLion saw rabbit, and ran afterhim. He caught rabbit andbrought the fire sticks back. Then lion sang his song: "I haveno problem. I can eat you all. Ican eat you with hair. I can eatyou without hair. All of you arefood for me!" The people still wanted Lion'sfire sticks. They thought ofanother plan. They calledspringbok. "We all know thatyou can jump very high and runvery fast," they said. When Lionis dancing and singing, youmust take his fire sticks andrun!" So springbok took Lion's firesticks and ran as fast as hecould. But Lion said, "I don'thear springbok's feet dancing."He turned and saw springbokrunning away into the veld. Hecaught springbok and broughtthe fire sticks back. Again lion sang his song: "Ihave no problem. I can eat youall. I can eat you with hair. I caneat you without hair. All of youare food for me!" The people still wanted Lion'sfire sticks. They thought ofanother plan. They calledostrich. "We all know that youhave the longest and strongestlegs of all of us," they said.When Lion is dancing andsinging, you must take his firesticks and run!" So ostrich took Lion's fire sticksand ran as fast as he could. ButLion said, "I don't hear ostrich'ssweet singing voice anymore."He turned and saw ostrichrunning away into the veld. After a long, long time, Lioncame back. He was very, verytired. He was very, very angry.He did not have his fire sticks.Ostrich was too fast for him. Then Lion spoke to all thepeople and all the animals."From this day on," he said,"you must all be very, verycareful. I will hunt you, andchase you, and when I catchyou I will eat you." And so this is how people cameto have fire. And this how Lioncame to be the enemy of allanimals and all people.

There was onlyone bus inEbei's village.It was big and blue.It was very noisy. One day, Ebei'smother said,"Tomorrow we willgo to town to buyyour school uniform." Ebei was very excited.They would travelin the big bluebus.He could not sleepthat night. Ebei was alreadydressed when hismother came towake him. Ebei and his motherwalked to thebus stop.They waited forthe big blue bus.But the busdid not come. Other people arrivedat the bus stop.They complainedbecause the buswas late."Has the busleft us?"they asked. Ebei was worried."We will not be ableto go to town.I will not be ableto get my uniform,"he thought. Some people gave upand went home.But Ebei cried anddid not want to go.His mothercomforted him."We will waita bit longer," she said. Suddenly, they hearda noise.They saw dustin the air.The bus was coming! But this bus was notblue. It was not big.This bus was redand small.The waiting peoplelooked at this bus.They did not get in. "Get in! Get in!"shouted the driver."We are very latetoday," he said. Ebei and his mothergot in first.Soon everyone elsegot in the smallred bus. Ebei looked out thewindow. He sawmore people atthe bus stop. Even more peoplewere running tocatch the bus.But they were too late.The bus was full.The red bus leftfor town. "Where is the bigblue bus?" askedEbei's mother."It broke down,"replied the driver."We are fixing it.It will come tomorrow,"he added. Ebei did not careabout the colour ofthe bus.He did not careabout the size ofthe bus.He was happybecause this buswas going to town.

Once long ago, the birds had a meeting. They wanted a king, just like people and animals. Which bird should be king? "The Eagle, he is strong and kingly!" said one. "No, he has no crown, and when he calls, he sounds too sad," said another. "Then Ostrich, because he is the largest and roars like a lion," one called out. "No, he can't fly. The king of the birds must be able to fly." "I think I should be king," said Peacock, fanning his tail. "I am so beautiful.""You are too proud," said Owl. "I have the largest eyes of any bird. I should be king." "No, not you, Owl," they shouted. "You go to sleep when the sun rises." And so they didn't get very far. Then one bird had an idea. “He who can fly the highest will be king,” he said.“Yes, yes,” they shouted, and they all flew up, up, into the sky. The Goose flew for one day, straight over the highest mountains in the world. The Eagle flew for two days into the blue above the mountains. But the Vulture soared for three whole days without stopping, straight toward the sun. Way above them, the birds heard Vulture cry, "I am the highest, I am king!" But then just above him Vulture heard a tiny voice, "Tink, tink, tink! I am the highest, I am king."It was Ncede, the Neddicky, the smallest bird of all! He had held onto the great wing feathers of Vulture as he soared into the sky! "You won't beat me again," said Vulture, and soared straight up into the air. He flew up and up until he could fly no more. "I am higher than any other bird. I am your king!"he cried. But out from under his wing crept the tiny bird. "Tink, tink! Tink, tink! It is I, the smallestone! I am your king."Vulture was too exhausted to fly any further. So down he sailed - with the little bird still under his wing. The other birds were furiouswith Ncede. They waited for him, ready to pluck out all his feathers. But the quick little bird saw how angry they were, and flew into an empty snake hole. "With your big eyes, you must keep guard at the hole and catch him when he comes out," they said to Owl. So Owl sat in front of the hole. But the sun was warm and soon Owl was fast asleep. The little bird peeped out, saw that Owl was asleep, and z-zip, away he went. Owl was very ashamed that he had let the little bird escape. Now he only hunts at night. In the day, he sleeps, away from the sight of the other birds.

My name is Simo. I have four friends. Their names are Zizo,Lele, Sisa and Ayanda. My friend Zizo likes toplay soccer. My friend Lele likes toswim. My friend Sisa likes toplay hide-and-seek. My friend Ayanda likesto read. Me?I like to do all the thingsthey like to do. I play soccer with Zizo. I swim with Lele. I play hide-and-seekwith Sisa. Come, friend, what doyou like? Come, play soccer withus. Come, swim with us. Come, play hide-andseek with us. Come, read with us!

Once there was a boy named Ramesh. He was very brave and wise. He worked in other town to make money and help his parents. One day he wanted to see his mother. So he took permission from his master and started his journey on foot. There was a big forest to cross to reach his village. He reached the forest within 30 minutes. He took rest for a while and again started his journey through the forest. In the mid of the jungle he saw a thief riding on a horse. He thought of a plan to get rid of him. He bravely went to the thief and asked him to accompany him to his home. The thief agreed so that he could loot all the family. When they reached home, he immediately went to his mother and told that the man who accompanied him was a thief! But he said not to worry and explained the plan. Then his mother gave the thief honey mixed with sleeping medicine. He drank it and immediately fell asleep. They took him to a dried well and dumped him there. Ramesh called all the villagers. And they found that hewas the thief they were searching for more than five years. All praised the brave boy.

Once there was abutterfly named Fiffie.She was clever atworking withcomputers. Fiffie saw a girl who wasupset and sad.The girl saw a nastypicture on a website. Fiffie flew over to thegirl's house. She said to the girl,"Never go on theinternet without agrownup." The girl and Fiffiebecame friends.Fiffie went to live withthe girl. When the girl grew upshe opened her owncomputer shop.Every week she hadlessons to teachchildren how to work oncomputers. She taught the childrennever to go on websiteswithout the permissionof grownups.Because of Fiffie, thewoman never hadnaughty fingers again!

Once upon a time , there lived a beauty queen in a village called tungatoor.The queen was so beautiful that the whole village was fond to see her.One fine morning, a news broke that the queen has fallen sick and doctors from all over the kingdom tried to save her from the disease. But, the prayers of villagers and doctors went into vain. Atlast the queen had to leave her last breathe and died.After this incident, there was so much disturbances in the village. Like, ther was no rains, kingdom suffered with many diseases and people died. This is continued till there was an other girl born in the same family of that of queen's and who was also named as "devishta" same as the queen's.After that birth, the kingdom regained its state as it was earlier. The mystery behind the death of queen and village devastation was not yet known.

Once upon a time there was a frog named Croaky. He was just the opposite of his name as he couldn't croak. But he could talk like humans. His home was near the sea-shore and he usually went to play in the sea. So one day while playing he asked a dolphin, "what sound do you make?" The Dolphin just clicked and whistled and swam away. After that Croaky swam back to the shore and he saw a rat running past. He stopped the rat and asked," What sound do you make?" The rat didn't understand Croaky's language, so he squeaked and ran away. Finally he saw a man and asked " Hi! My name is Croaky? Could you help me?" The boy was astonished to see a talking frog and asked Croaky how could he speak this language. Croaky explained that when he was born he heard some humans taking like that and that's where he picked up this language. The man was surprised and asked how could he help. Croaky asked" Could you teach me how to Croak?" The man said, " I'll try give me sometime. The man went inside his home which was nearby and switched on his computer. He asked Google how do frogs croak and this is what he read : Try to burp and chirp like a cricket at the same time. Do this fifty times for practice and you are done. He switched off his computer and went out to tell Croaky the same thing, " Burp and chirp like a cricket and do this fifty times for practice and you are done." Croaky said thank you to the man and went back to his home. He practiced as the man had asked him and he was able to croak. Croaky could really croak now, just like his name. All thanks to that man and google.THE END

In the past, rat and frogwere friends. They lived on the samevillage Rat was a farmer of maize , Frogwas not interested in that job.At rat's home food was alwaysthere His children never knewwhat famine is Hischildren never gothungry At frogs home, therewas always famine Thiscaused frog to alwaysbeg maize from Mr. Rat It never pleased Mr. Ratto feed frogs family Mr.Rat got a good wisdomthat the agriculturedepartment passed alaw. Only maize grain shouldbe eaten not flour. Thisbecame very hard forthe frog From that time to nowfrog cannot eat maizegrain.

I am an owlI see in the night.... .....and I sleep all the day One day all the birds woke me up from the sleep Cause their friend is falling on the ground..... .....and vulture moving around All of us helped the bird to get on the branch The peacock danced for me All the birds are happy I am again sleepy....

Many years ago, theLizard and the Frogwere friends. One daythey decided to lookfor girlfriends in thecity. The Frog was jealousof the Lizard's shiningand brilliant skin. He said: What did youdo to look so beautiful?Look at me,I am so ugly.What can I do about myskin? The Lizard said:Listen! Put some waterin a pot and put it onthe fire.Next you... But the Frog said: Iknow already, I know.Shut up, my friend. Andhe left. So he arrived home andput some water ina pot. When the water beganto boil, he threw himselfinto it. and his skin was burntand his tail came off! And instead of beingbrilliant and beautifullike the Lizard, he waseven more ugly!

It was a holiday for Abhinav. He saw a cat. He was reminded of his cartoon character Oggy. This must be Oggy he thought. He rushed to his mom and asked for milk to feed his Oggy. He left the milk in a sauce and soon the cat drank way. He gave milk to the cat everyday and soon both of them turned friends. He also started talking to Oggy," Oggy , you should be strong enough to drive away those cockroaches. Drink milk and become strong." And this became as one of his daily jobs. Some days passed. One day after coming from school and finishing his homework , he sat to watch his catoon "Oggy and the Cockroaches." But he found there was no change in the behaviour and attitude of Oggy. He asked his mom," Mom I gave so much milk and advised Oggy to win over the cockroaches. But still Oggy behaves the same and gets into trouble. "His mom said," Your friend cat and Oggy are different. It is not Oggy." "Oh!....... If my cat is not Oggy, then why should I give milk for the cat?" Abhinav asked.His mom said " Abhinav, The cat is your friend. Also we have to share food and stuff with others because......." "Because........ sharing is caring " Abhinav completed and added," My teacher taught me this."Yes. He is right.

It was a hot summerday in the dry forest. Little Ant had no waterfor many days. "I need a drop of water,even if it falls from aleaf." But even the dew haddried up. "If I don't drink, I willdie," cried Little Ant."I must go to the river Ihave heard about." "The river will sweepyou away," a wisesquirrel warned him. But Little Ant was sothirsty."I will die if I don't drinksome water." Little Ant went to lookfor the river... across dry grass andover dry branches... ...until he heard thewaves of the riversplashing. Little Ant took a longsip of cool water. He was so happy he didnot see the huge wavecoming. Ant tried to grab thedry grass floating pasthim.But he was swept awayby the water. "Help someone. Helpme please." "Quick, climb on," saidWhite Dove, holding abranch in his beak.  "I cannot leave until Isay thank you to thedove. I will wait until hecomes back to drink." One day as he waited,two boys came to theriver with theirslingshots. "There is a big whitedove that comes hereto drink," said one boy."We will have it forsupper tonight."  "I cannot let the boyskill White Dove.But I am so tiny, whatcan I do?" Just then White Doveflew down from the treeto drink.  Little Ant had an idea. He jumped onto oneboy's foot, and bit himas hard as he could. The boy jumped."Ouch!" he cried. White Dove wasstartled and flew awayto safety. That was how Little Antthanked White Dove forsaving him.

My name is Maddy Moona,And today I'm turning five.Dad promised I could choose apet,A real one! Something live!We'll travel across the wholewide world,Searching Mali through Tibet,Until we find the perfect one...Oh, I know just what I'll get! I'm going to get an elephant.I'll ride on it to school.My brother Billy can walkbehindhe'll think I'm awfully cool.But... what if Ellie caught acold?I guess she'd sneeze.... A LOT!There is no tissue big enoughto wipe up all that snot.  I want a Nile crocodile sent to me by the pharaohs.I'll call him Tut and feed him soup, fish fingers, and baby marrows.I'll keep him in the bathtub and brush his pearly whites,But... what if flossing all those teeth takes me all day and night? Perhaps a pair of porcupines,for games of robbers and cops.Their prickly quills will be handyfor holding up sweetie shops.I can munch away on candybarswhile my gang sharpen theirspines.But... what if my sharp-shootingpalsput me in the firing line? Maybe I need a stealthier plan.Let's clear out the store withfunk!There isn't a smellier critter onearthThat's what I want — a skunk!But.... what if I can't go into theshopafter Skunky has let off hisstink?Sweets are no good for myteeth anyway.A rotten idea! I need to rethink! A rhino! The horns, the bigstomping feet,the armour on both of its flanks!Billy would never chase meagain.It would be my own personaltank.But... what if Billy raises histemperand Rhino goes on therampage?Crash bang boom! The teacups!The plates!Now I'm grounded 'til I'm gran'sage. I need a beast to tame mybrother.With teeth, sharp claws and aroar.A LION! I could feed it BillyBiltong...Yes! A lion would settle thescore.But... a lion has a hugeappetite.Skinny Billy won't satisfy.And once Brutus has a taste forus Moonas,he'll see me as Maddy stir-fry. Dad thinks I should choose acuddlier pet.My parents are so hard toplease.They want me to have a pet Ican hug.A python? A python hassqueeze.But... if Snakey develops toomuch of a crush,he'll suffocate me withaffection.To be honest, I just can't marrya snake!And reptiles can't handlerejection. No, reptiles aren't the way togo.I definitely need somethingtaller.A giraffe would be awesome. I'llslide down her neck,and think up a long name to callher.But... something more thaneight foot tall isno good.Our house has a rather lowceiling.I'd spend hours massagingcricks out her neck.My fingers would lose all theirfeeling. None of these are the perfectpet!Oh what, oh what will I get? Those animals just don't work.None are my perfect partner incrime.I want something with fur, a petwho will follow.Oh wait! I know — a canine! My Bandit is the biggest bark onthe block!He's the fastest pup in thewest!Nothing can stop us. Not Billynor bedtime.I love my Bandit. He's my best!

Once upon a time, there were 5 Avengers in Avengers headquarters One name was vision, another name was captain America, another name was War machine, another name was scarlet, another name was romanof One day, Captain went alone in the woods inside the Avengers Quinjet then the other Avengers woke up then they had their breakfast... and started watching TV. But they forgot about Captain. then War Machine reminded them about him. All the avengers had coms but... Captain had a detector in his com They located Captain in the woods. The Avengers walked through the woods. Just then they heard a sound.... It was the Green Goblin Green Goblin reached Captain and started attacking him and all the Avengers started fighting with him and the Goblin was defeated. The Avengers happily lived ever after.

One day, Dia was listening to the story of king Thutankan. It was a very sad story. Dia felt hungry. Amma gave her pakodas. It made her feel better. Collette was a nice girl, but she was weak in studies. This made her very miserable. Mom gave her some milk and biscuits. She was no longer a weak girl. Baloo was a greedy bear. He liked eating sardines. One day, the lake had dried up and there was no water. So Baloo made a wish that it would rain fish. And it did!Baloo ate till his heart was contended. Merani was a little girl. She loved pakodas and gujias. But her mother was not buying them for her. She felt sad. One day, her mom bought pakodas for her. It made Merani happy. Madhu and her mother were making a kolam for pongal. After putting the kolam, Madhu was tired. But her mother gave her Thepla's. Madhu was not tired anymore.So, remember folks!!!! FOOD MAKES EVERYTHING BETTER!!!!

This is my teacher.Her name is Teacher Akinyi.She loves me a lot. Teacher Akinyi teaches us the alphabet and the vowels.I can say the letters a, e, i, o, u. Teacher Akinyi has taught us the colours red, blue, green, yellow, and black. During nap time Teacher Akinyi sings us to sleep.She sings a lullaby to us. The lullaby goes like this:Golden slumber give your eyesSmiles await you when you riseSleep pretty darlings, do not cryAnd I'll sing you a sweet lullaby. Teacher Akinyi knows many stories.She tells us a different story each day of the week. On Monday, she tells us stories about great men. On Tuesday, she tells us stories about great women. On Wednesday, she tells us stories about means of transport. On Thursday, she tells us stories about farming. And on Friday, Teacher Akinyi asks us to tell our own stories to the class. Our teacher is the best teacher in the world!When I grow up, I want to be like Teacher Akinyi.

Come back, cat! Play with me. Sit in your basket. Stayright here! Come back, cat! That's way too high. Come back, cat! Don't go outside.  Come back, cat! That's not yours. Come back, cat! What have you got? Come back, cat! That's not your friend! Hello, cat! Are you back? Stay in your basket. It's nap time now. Cat?

"Oh! What a wonderful world out there," thought Rosella. The breathtaking sunset! The jumpy dolphins! Ladies when they pray! And our dear earth! "Oh! Who knows what horrible people would spoil our earth!" thought Rangan. The sea monsterTUM TUK The bike monsterNANANABOO The monster of angerDHUMO And The monster of rainKOTLAMAL We should keep the earth safe and sound.

One day my sister and Iwere walking near theroad. A big truck was drivingdown the hill. A car was speeding upthe hill. The truck driver wastalking on his cellphone.He was not looking atthe road. The truck smashed intothe car! An ambulance and thepolice came to help. Two tow trucks came.One towed the truck.The other towed thecar. We saw everything.We were shocked.

There was this beautiful girl named Zara. She lived with her father. Her mom had died two months ago. Soon, Zara's father died. So Zara had to live with her step mother. Her step mother had 3 naughty daughters. One day, there was a ball at the palace. Zara wanted to go, but her mother told no. She was heartbroken. Just then, a fairy came. She gave Zara a gown. Zara thanked her. Zara went to the ball and her step mom and sisters were surprised. Zara had a nice time.

Once upon a time therelived two friends,Tortoise and Snake. On day Tortoise said to Snake, "Let us go and swim.""Alright, but I don't know to swim," answered Snake."I will teach you," replied Tortoise. They went to a swimming pool. "Who will enter the waterfirst?" asked Tortoise."You will, and I will watch you," said Snake. Tortoise entered the swimming pool. Snake observed fromthe steps. After some time, Snake entered the pool as Tortoise gaveinstructions. Tortoise and Snake swam in the shallow end of the pool. They started floating on the water. As they were floating,Tortoise startedswimming backstroke.While imitating Tortoise,Snake could not propelhimself and starteddrowning. On realising that Snake had disappeared, Tortoise hurriedlywent under water and rescued the life of the snake. As soon as Tortoise gotout of the water, heturned Snake upsidedown in order to get ridof the water that Snakeswallowed. Finally, Tortoise used the mouth-to-mouth method to removemore water.

There once was a tortoise living on the shores of a river and there was also a cunning fox who lived there. The fox was always trying to eat the tortoise but the tortoise always kept clear and lived in the waters of the river, unfortunately one day the fox caught the tortoise The tortoise was shivering with fear and hid in his shell the fox could not crack the shell. So the fox asked the turtle what he should do the turtle grabbed his courage, and spoke that the fox should put him in the water when he does so the shell will soak and become soft the foolish fox did what the tortoise said. But, as soon as he put the tortoise in the water it swam for his life

This is Mr Fly. This is Mr Big Head. Mr Big Head and Mr Flywere friends.One day, they went fora walk together. They came to the edgeof a river, and startedarguing with eachother.Mr Fly said, "You can'tjump over this river!""Yes, I can! It's you whocan't!" replied Mr BigHead. "You jump!" said Mr Fly."No, you jump first,"said Mr Big Head.So Mr Fly flew acrossthe river. Then Mr Big Headjumped into the river.But his head was so bigthat he started to sink. Mr Fly laughed, "Heehee!"But he laughed somuch that his mouthtore in two from oneside to the other!

There lived a small and happy family. Mother, father and two children. Ram, Ramya , Rahul, Rohan. Ram is a bank accountant in HDFC. Ramya is a house wife who looks after her children and take care of them. They love each other and the father give all the things they wanted. Rahul is studing in 1st class and Rohan is a baby. When Ram comes back to home after his duty, he brings so many toys for his children. Every sunday they go to see a film and at night they go to a restaurent. Their family is full of joy and happiness. After 16 years, Rahul and Rohan became big and Rahul got a job of software engineer and Rohan wants to do adventures.

There was a girl named Anna. She like to take risks and adventures. Once she went to a jungle for hiking. There she lost her way to go home. It was already too night, so she decided to go home next day. Suddenly, it started raining heavely so she ran to a cave, there she met a bear whose name is Golu. It was very stromy that night. Anna and Golu became friends and they both decided to went in search of their home. They both felt hungry and Golu climbed up a tree for fruits to eat, after while they continued their journey. At last they found the road and went back to their home. She felt very happy to have a friend like Golu.

Long time ago, no animal had legs.They all used to crawl on the ground. Only human beings had legs because Maguru had given legs to humans. One day, Maguru decided to give legs to every animal.He walked round the village announcing from a loudspeaker.He wanted each animal to walk like a human being. The animals were happy when they heard that they would be given legs.Each animal wanted to have legs so that it could walk and run.They sang, wagged their tails and flapped their wings. Animals gathered and discussed how difficult it was to crawl.The ground scratched their bellies.Legs would also help them to stand and see far, like human beings did. When the day came, many animals crawled to Maguru's house to get their legs.Giraffes, lions, elephants, rabbits, crocodiles, and birds queued and waited to be given legs. Each animal was given four legs.Birds were given two legs each. Animals looked different on legs.Some danced in joy.Others had difficulty walking and fell down. They walked round the village showing off to human beings.All the animals said, "We will never crawl again." The last animal in the queue was the millipede.Maguru asked, "Is there anyone else after you?""No, I am the last one," Millipede answered. Maguru thought, "If there is no one else, what will I do with the rest of the legs?"Maguru gave all the remaining legs to Millipede. Millipede went away very happy because he had many legs."I will move faster than any of them," he thought. As soon as Millipede had left, the snake came to Maguru's house."Maguru, please give me some legs," Snake begged. "I have given out all the legs. Where were you?" Maguru asked."I over-slept," Snake replied. Maguru checked in his house to see whether there were any legs remaining.But he did not find any. Maguru came out and said, "Sorry, Snake, there are no legs remaining." Snake had to crawl back home without legs.Since that day Snake does not sleep much.He is always waiting for the next chance to get legs.

Anansi the Spider and Rabbit werefriends. They lived in a peacefulvillage in the mountains.Rabbit owned a big farm with lots ofvegetables and fruit.Even though Rabbit sharedgenerously with his friend, Anansiwas unhappy and jealous. So Anansi thought of a clever planto take over Rabbit's farm.Soon Rabbit was left poor andhomeless. Anansi was the proudowner of all Rabbit's land,vegetables, and fruit. Anansi went to the market to sellhis fruit and vegetables.He made so much money that hefilled a big basket with it!With some of the money, he boughtmaize for his family, and put it ontop of the money in the basket. Anansi happily headed home withhis basket on his head, singing.He was thinking about all the thingshe was going to buy with his money. On the way it started to drizzle.Soon the drizzle turned into a heavydownpour.Anansi the Spider left his basket onthe side of the road to shelter undera tree. But from there he kept aclose watch on his precious basket. It started to rain even more heavily,and Anansi was getting cold andwet. So he ran into a hole."I will stay in this hole until the rainstops," said Anansi to himself. "Atleast my money is protected by themaize I put on top of it." A little while later, Vulture wasflying around and spotted thebasket on the side of the road.He saw that there was money andmaize in the basket.So he covered the basket with hiswings and waited for the rain tostop. Anansi saw Vulture sitting on hisbasket."Oh thank you, my friend, forprotecting my basket," he said tothe Vulture."Excuse me, Anansi, did I hear youright?" asked Vulture. "Your basket?This basket is mine! I found it hereon the road side!"Anansi could not believe his ears!"It's mine, I tell you!" Furious, Anansi went and reportedthe theft to the chief. But Vulturesaid to the chief and his elders,"How could anyone leave a basketfull of money and maize unguardedon the road?""But I was watching my basket,"said Anansi. "It's my money and mymaize!""I was looking after the basketwhen you came and said it wasyours!" replied Vulture. When the chief and his elders hadlistened carefully to both sides, theysent Anansi and Vulture away.They discussed the story for a longtime.Eventually they reached a decision. They summoned Anansi and theVulture again."We believe Vulture's story," theysaid. "He is not the thief. You weretrying to claim something that wasnot yours."Anansi could not believe his ears!He burst into tears. The news soon spread that thejudgement had gone againstAnansi.As he walked away, he heard Rabbitlaughing and laughing.Rabbit went back to his farm andgrew fruit and vegetables.But Anansi was poor again, with nofriends.

One day, Sheema was going out to play. She played in the mud. When she got home, Her mother, Mrs Kamala saw Sheema and scolded her for she was all dirty. Sheema started to cry. Her mother gave her a bar of soap. Sheema took the bar of soap and had her bath. She ate her dinner and brushed her teeth. Her mother was very happy. When she was sleeping, she dreamt that she was a princess. She dreamt that she was being captured by bugs. She was being chased by Harkens and Doomsters. Then, king kenrykoof came to the rescue with his army. They fought the harkens and doomsters. So she built a castle to celebrate the victory of king kenrykoof.

Ismail wakes up at a quarter to seven in themorning, just after the first cockcrow. Fifteenminutes later he eats breakfast.What time does Ismail eat breakfast? After breakfast at seven in themorning he packs his bag andgets ready for school. Half anhour later he is ready.What time is it now? At seven thirty he goes toschool. Ismail has a long way towalk, since his school is inanother village. At 8:10 hereaches his school.How long was the walk? Ismail likes the forty-minute walk to schoolevery morning since it is cool outside. In theafternoon it is too hot to walk that far, hethinks. Ismail reaches school 20 minutes beforethe first lesson.What time is the first lesson? The first lesson of the day startsat 8:30. The teacher alwayscomes five minutes late.What time does the teachercome? At 8:35 the teacher comes andstarts the lesson. The teachercontinues up to break at 10:30.How long has the teacher beenteaching? Almost two hours – one hourand fifty-five minutes – to beexact, the teacher has beenteaching. The break lasts for 30minutes. Halfway through thebreak Ismail has finished hisporridge.What time is it now? After finishing his porridge at 10:45, Ismail plays football, and then goes back toclass. His next meal is lunch at one o'clock.How much time is there between Ismail's porridge and his lunch? Two hours and forty-fiveminutes after eating porridge,Ismail has his one-hour lunchbreak. It ends at 2 o'clock.Ismail has two lessons left, andeach is half an hour long.What time does Ismail finishschool? At 3 o'clock school is over and Ismail goes home. He reaches 45 minutes later.When does he reach home? When Ismail reaches home at3:45 in the afternoon he playswith his little brother and hisfriends. Sometimes he doeschores that his parents ask himto do. At 7 in the evening heeats his supper.How long has it been ?since hereached home? After playing for three hoursand fifteen minutes, Ismail eatshis supper quickly. He is alwayshungry. But he also gets tiredfrom eating. By nine thirty he isusually in bed. But hisgrandmother always tells him astory before he sleeps. Fiveminutes to ten his grandmotherhas told her story and Ismail isready to sleep.How long was the story? Ismail's grandmother spent 25minutes telling her story?How much time did you spendreading this one?

Akash is a little boy who loves sweets. He loves yummy laddoos, cupcakes, pudding and cakes. He talks about it to his friends and sneaks yummy cupcakes into his bed. He has never stopped dreaming about it. All he can think of is something sweet for his sweet tooth. He sneaks every night to have some sugar. He imagines a cake awaiting for him in his dream. However he refuses to brush his teeth at night even though mommy and daddy has warned him about tooth monsters. One day he went to bed, just as usual dreaming about his cake he saw a huge monster went whoosh into his mouth and scared him. The monster said "I will eat all your teeth away if you don't brush your teeth". Akash woke up crying and running frantically to his parents. He said "mom and dad, I will not go to bed without brushing my teeth from now on, I do not want tooth monster." Mom and dad were surprised and definitely excited that Akash wanted to brush his teeth. Not only that day Akash started brushing every morning and evening so he can enjoy all his sweets without worrying about germs.Good bye germs.

Early one morning Vusi's grannycalled him, "Vusi, please take thisegg to your parents. They want tomake a large cake for your sister'swedding." On his way to his parents, Vusi mettwo boys picking fruit. One boygrabbed the egg from Vusi and shotit at a tree. The egg broke. "What have you done?" cried Vusi."That egg was for a cake. The cakewas for my sister's wedding. Whatwill my sister say if there is nowedding cake?" The boys were sorry for teasingVusi."We can't help with the cake, buthere is a walking stick for yoursister," said one.Vusi continued on his journey. Along the way he met two menbuilding a house. "Can we use thatstrong stick?" asked one.But the stick was not strong enoughfor building, and it broke. "What have you done?" cried Vusi."That stick was a gift for my sister.The fruit pickers gave me the stickbecause they broke the egg for thecake. The cake was for my sister'swedding. Now there is no egg, nocake, and no gift. What will mysister say?" The builders were sorry for breakingthe stick."We can't help with the cake, buthere is some thatch for your sister,"said one.And so Vusi continued on hisjourney. Along the way, Vusi met a farmerand a cow. "What delicious thatch,can I have a nibble?" asked the cow.But the thatch was so tasty that thecow ate it all! "What have you done?" cried Vusi."That thatch was a gift for mysister. The builders gave me thethatch because they broke the stickfrom the fruit pickers. The fruitpickers gave me the stick becausethey broke the egg for my sister'scake. The cake was for my sister'swedding. Now there is no egg, nocake, and no gift. What will mysister say?" The cow was sorry she was greedy.The farmer agreed that the cowcould go with Vusi as a gift for hissister. And so Vusi carried on. But the cow ran back to the farmerat supper time.And Vusi got lost on his journey.He arrived very late for his sister'swedding. The guests were alreadyeating. "What shall I do?" cried Vusi."The cow that ran away was a gift,in return for the thatch the buildersgave me. The builders gave me thethatch because they broke the stickfrom the fruit pickers. The fruitpickers gave me the stick becausethey broke the egg for the cake.The cake was for the wedding. Nowthere is no egg, no cake, and nogift." Vusi's sister thought for a while,then she said,"Vusi my brother, I don't really careabout gifts. I don't even care aboutthe cake! We are all here together, Iam happy. Now put on your smartclothes and let's celebrate thisday!"And so that's what Vusi did.

Once god came to earth. He is god - recognized by peacock and gave him a peacock eye. He adored it, on head. He is god - recognized by bamboo and gave him a bamboo shoot. He adored it in hand as flute -'murali'. He is god - recognized by bushes and trees, gave him flowers. He adored them as garland-'mala'. He is god - recognized by cow and gave him milk and followed him. He has become lord 'Krishna'. He has seen beggar, asking for alms. He appeared before him. Beggar thought him as another beggar, in krishna's attire. He told him, he is busy seeking alms. He went to him , in the shape of human, and the beggar asked him for alms, and he gave.God then decided, to help humans, I come in human shape, they donot recognise any other form. To save any other being, I will go as god!

A long time ago, therabbit and the snakewere good friends. One day they began tochat with each other.But the rabbit wasmuch cleverer than thesnake, and the snakeknew it! So, they werediscussing who couldstare the longest. Thesnake said:Let's try it. I will win bystaring at you.So the rabbit agreed tothe staring game. The snake and therabbit began to stare.They kept on doing itfor several minutes. Then the snake gottired. So he got out ofhis body and only hisskin was left looking atthe rabbit. The rabbit continuedlooking at the snake'sskin for several hours. The rabbit thought hewas the cleverestanimal, but on that day,his cleverness wasended. And that's whyto this day the rabbitsleeps with his eyesopen!

I enjoy skipping. I enjoy skipping rope alone. I enjoy skipping with my friend. I enjoy reading interesting stories. I enjoy walking in the field with my friends. I enjoy washing dishes to help at home. I enjoy writing big letters which I can read easily. I enjoy eating different fruits. I enjoy sleeping on a big bed. I enjoy listening to my mother's interesting stories. I enjoy doing all these things!

Grandma's garden was wonderful, full of sorghum, millet, and cassava.But best of all were the bananas.Although Grandma had many grandchildren, I secretly knew that I was her favourite. She invited me often to her house. She also told me little secrets.But there was one secret she did not share with me: where she ripened bananas. One day I saw a big straw basket placed in the sun outside Grandma's house. When I asked what it was for, the only answer I got was, "It's my magic basket."Next to the basket, there were several banana leaves that Grandma turned from time to time. I was curious. "What are the leaves for, Grandma?" I asked. The only answer I got was, "They are my magic leaves." It was so interesting watching Grandma, the bananas, the banana leaves and the big straw basket. But Grandma sent me off to my mother on an errand."Grandma, please, let me watch as you prepare...""Don't be stubborn, child, do as you are told," she insisted. I took off running. When I returned, Grandma was sitting outside but with neither the basket nor the bananas."Grandma, where is the basket, where are all the bananas, and where..."But the only answer I got was, "They are in my magic place." It was so disappointing! Two days later, Grandma sent me to fetch her walking stick from her bedroom.As soon as I opened the door, I was welcomed by the strong smell of ripening bananas. In the inner room was grandma's big magic straw basket. It was well hidden by an old blanket. I lifted it and sniffed that glorious smell. Grandma's voice startled me when she called, "What are you doing? Hurry up and bring me the stick."I hurried out with her walking stick. "What are you smiling about?" Grandma asked.Her question made me realise that I was still smiling at the discovery of her magic place. The following day when grandma came to visit my mother, I rushed to her house to check the bananas once more.There was a bunch of very ripe ones. I picked one and hid it in my dress. After covering the basket again, I went behind the house and quickly ate it. It was the sweetest banana I had ever tasted. The following day, when grandma was in the garden picking vegetables, I sneaked in and peered at the bananas.Nearly all were ripe. I couldn't help taking a bunch of four.As I tiptoed towards the door, I heard grandma coughing outside. I just managed to hide the bananas under my dress and walked past her. The following day was market day. Grandma woke up early. She always took ripe bananas and cassava to sell at the market.I did not hurry to visit her that day. But I could not avoid her for long. Later that evening I was called by my mother and father, and Grandma. I knew why.That night as I lay down to sleep, I knew I could never steal again, not from grandma, not from my parents, and certainly not from anyone else.

Vladmir was a young boy living in Russia. It was snowing like never before there. He wanted to go out, but his parents would not let him out as it was very cold. But he was stubborn with his decision. Days passed. He was bored sitting in is house. He thought that it was a jailed life in his house. He used to take a peep at the snow from the window every now and then. Now he was frustrated and couldn't resist his feelings!! Once when their parents were having a small nap, he proved himself as a naughty boy. He opened the door stealthily and lo! he was at his destination. The paradise of snow outside. He wore all the winter costumes too. He imagined the most common thing with snow. "Idea snowman!!" he exclaimed. He began with his work. He enjoyed making the snowman. He also enjoyed the cool atmosphere in the outside winter world. But a constant fear kept haunting him "what if I am caught red handed by mom and dad?" he was sure he was gonna be beaten. His mom was seeing all these from the window without Vladmir's knowledge. Vladmir decided to tell the truth. He entered inside his house. His mom was just in front of him, angry and frustrated. This time Vladmir knew he had to tell the truth. Just before his mom started scolding him, he just asked a moment and blurted out the truth. His mom was rather angry but was very happy as his son told the truth. His mom accepted his apology and warned him not to do these things once again. "There is nothing bigger than Mom's love in this world," Vladmir thought

Once upon a time in Donkgoat village there was a donkey named Silly and a goat named Billy. One day Silly was watching television . On television he was watching ministry of petrol pumps. So Silly decided to meet the ministry of petrol pumps. They packed their bags and left. They went to Dester station to catch a subway at 6;00 am. Silly was lazy but Billy was active and so they woke up early and ran to the station and boarded the subway. So Silly got subway-sick . He lay down and Billy watched the wonderful sight. They got off at Genter station. Now they bought a Slackcar (A snake type car) for 7,955 Donklet (currency of Donkgoat). They travelled the rest of journey in the Slackcar. At last they met the ministry of petrol pumps.They forgot what they were there for. They took a lot of time to think but could not remember. They both were wagging their tails while thinking. And yet they could not remember. So they shook hands with the Ministry of Petrol Pumps and left for home.They lived happily ever after.THE END.

I love the rainbow I love all the colours ofthe rainbow. I wish I could have arainbow house It could have a red roof. It could have a bluewindows. I could have it painted yellowoutside. It could have violetwalls inside. It could have orangeflowers. It could have indigo bed. It could have a greengarden.

Rizwan, a young kid stayed in a beautiful snow mountain near the Himalayan range. Like him this Saturday morning, the parents finally allowed the other kids who were all his friends to come out and play in the snow. As the sun finally shone like a bright star, the kids Prisha, Arwan, Vinay and Tina all were there creating multiple snowmen. Everyone loved being out there in the snow. They were playing, laughing and singing. The kids knew only those who played in the snow could understand the difference of having fun in the midst of nature. It wasn't about going to a mall or watching TV. This was bliss. They later shared the pictures to all their cousins living in cities to come and enjoy snow like them.

Tom carries a tray of ripe bananas. Tom goes to the market to sell bananas. People at the market are buying fruit. But no one is buyingTom's bananas.They prefer to buy fruit from women. "In our community, only women sell fruit," people say. "What kind of a man is this?" people ask. But Tom does not give up.He calls, "Buy my bananas!Buy my sweet ripe bananas!" One woman picks up a bunch of bananas from the tray.She looks at the bananas carefully. The woman buys the bananas. More people come to the stall.They buy Tom's bananas and eat them. Soon, the tray is empty.Tom counts the money he earned. Then Tom buys soap, sugar, and bread.He puts the things in his tray. Tom balances the tray on his head and goes home.

One day there are 3 warriors. We fight evil to protect our India. But we lost and we fought back with full might and took back our India. Dancing is fun!!! Swimming in the beach is awesome!!! Let's do it again!!! we love beach!!!

Once upon a time, there lived a man who had plenty of everything – a large fertile farm,with cattle, sheep, and goats.But, as he grew old, he grew sad, because one thing was missing.He did not have a wife. Standing under a tree one day, hehad a brilliant idea.If he couldn't find a wife, perhapshe could make one? So he set to work to shape abeautiful woman from a strongbranch of the tree. When he hadfinished making the statue, hetouched her eyes, and they opened.He blew gently on her, and shecame alive. She was truly the most beautifulwoman he had ever seen.He knelt before her, and asked herto be his wife. He gave her a colourful apron,beads, and a head ring, the sign ofa married woman. And he built hera house with the mud and grassthat used to lie at the foot of hertrunk."Only one thing I beg of you," hesaid to his wife. "Never tell anyonewhere you come from." But before long, the young menfrom a neighbouring village begantalking among themselves."How can such an old man havesuch a beautiful young wife?"So they decided to steal her andtake her to their own kraal. The old man was heartbroken. Hefelt he could not live without her.But then he thought, "Perhaps if Ihave something of hers, I would notfeel so sad?"So he sent his doves to find her, tosing to her, and to bring backsomething of hers to him. When they found her, they sang toher in the language of birds:Tree woman, tree womanMore beautiful than any otherYour husband has sent usTo bring back your apron! She gave them her apron, and they flew over the hill, over the river, back to her husband.He held the apron to his face, and was comforted for a little while. But his longing did not go away.So again he sent his doves to singto her:Tree woman, tree womanMore beautiful than any otherYour husband has sent usTo bring back your head ring!And back they flew with the headring, the sign of a married woman. He held the head ring and sighedfor his wife, far away in the kraal ofother people.After a while, he called his dovesagain. He told them to go to herand sing:Tree woman, tree womanMore beautiful than any otherYour husband has sent usTo bring back your life! So away they went the third time.They perched on her shoulders. Asthey sang, each bird pecked out aneye.Immediately she turned again into astatue.Her feet and arms fell away. Thenher head.And she fell to the ground. Her husband slowly rolled herwooden trunk to the river.He stood her up with her roots inthe water.Nourished by sun and soil, she grewleaves again. And when the wind blows, theleaves sigh.Just as a woman does when shelongs for her husband.

This is a Seahorse.It is mostly found in shallow tropical and temperate waters throughout the world. This is an Octopus.Octopuses inhabit diverse regions of the ocean, including coral reefs and the ocean floor. This is a Clown Fish.Clown Fish are native to warmer waters and live at the bottom of shallow seas in sheltered reefs or in shallow lagoons. These are Dolphins.They are found across the world with most species of Dolphins preferring the warmer waters of the tropical zones. A few species however prefer colder climates. This is a Sea Turtle (also known as Marine Turtle)Sea turtles can be found in all oceans except for the polar regions. This big fish here is a Manta Ray.Mantas are found in temperate, subtropical and tropical waters. This is a Starfish (also known as Sea Stars).Starfishes are found in salt waters all over the world, from the Atlantic Ocean to the Indian Ocean and beyond.

Once there was a youngman called Kumbana. When he was 25, he fellin love with a girl calledZangane. They were together for3 years, but he didn'thave enough money tomarryher. Then one day she foundshe was pregnant,because they didn't useprotection. A little girl was born,and they called herKheri. But Kumbana was stillstudying, and Zanganehad a job in a town faraway, so they had tolive apart. After a while, Zanganefound a new boyfriend.He came to live withher and the little girl. Kumbana was heartbroken. He cried andcried because he wasseparated from hisdaughter. Time went on, andKumbana found a newgirlfriend too. Theylived together, but theydid not have anychildren. Now Kheri did not likeher new father at all.She was very unhappy,and he used to beather. So when she was 12,her mother decided tosend her back to livewith her real father. Then Kumbana andKheri were both happyagain.

The year was 1870. New London, Connecticut, United States. 7 am.Kids were tumbling out of bed, their mothers hurrying them to clean their teeth, handing them tooth sticks and jars of toothpaste. What? Did I just say – “Toothsticks”?That's right.They used toothsticks to clean their teeth back in 1870. A toothstick was simply a twig with a frayed end. Some lucky kids had twigs with boar hair tied to one end for that extra shine. And what was that other thing I said? “Jars of toothpaste”?That's right. Toothpaste tubes were not invented yet. They only had jars.And every bleary eyed kid started her day by dipping a toothstick into a porcelain jar filled with toothpaste. Actually, into the same porcelain jar that every other member of the family dipped their toothstick into. Including that visiting grand aunt with yellow and black teeth, whose toothstick matched her teeth. One morning, a disgusted cry went up in a dentist's house. “Ewwwwwwwwww!”It was Dr. Sheffield's son Lucius, who refused to dip into the jar anymore and decided to use tooth powder henceforth. But a thought remained in his mind – there must be a better way to use toothpaste. A few years later, Lucius went to Paris to study the science of dentistry. There, he saw artists squeezing paint from metal tubes on to their paintbrushes. Why couldn't the same type of tube be used to hold toothpaste?!He rushed back home and shared this idea with his father, who thought that it was just totally awesome.There was just that little matter of figuring out how to get the toothpaste from a jar into the tube through that little opening. How do you think Lucius could fill toothpaste into an empty tube?Have you had a bad morning when you squeezed way too much paste in your half asleep state? And you see that there's toothpaste all over the sink and your mother is reminding you that the school bus will be at the doorstep in twenty minutes, and the last thing you want is for her to flip when she sees the mess you've made? How would you go about putting the toothpaste back into the tube?Now, what do you think Lucius and his father used to fill a tube with toothpaste?A ear bud? Or a really tiny spoon? A toothpick? It was not as messy as you'd expect, because the way Dr. Sheffield and his team did it was without opening the cap!That's right, they kept the cap screwed on tight, and opened up the other end! It's definitely easier to fill a tube from the larger end, especially if you have something to pump the paste with, like a syringe. After that, all you have to do is seal the end tight so that the paste will not leak. Today, toothpaste tubes are filled using machines. All the empty tubes are lined up on a conveyer belt with their caps downwards and the unsealed end pointing up. A big container filled with toothpaste is fixed above the conveyor belt. From a nozzle at the bottom of the container, the toothpaste is let into each of these tubes as they move along the conveyor belt. But the paste is not filled all the way to the brim. About half an inch is left so that it can be sealed.Now the tube is ready to be squeezed! Ancient Indian wisdom for good teethMany people in India use datun, the twig of a neem or babool tree, instead of a factory-made brush. Datun keeps teeth and gums healthy. But do you know which the best brush in the world is?Your fingers, say dentists! Great for the teeth and gums.Have you tried tooth powder? What are the different smells that you can detect in it?Herbs and spices that are good for teeth include mint, clove, cinnamon, black pepper and tulsi. Eating fibrous fruits and vegetables, like apples and carrots, is good for cleaning teeth. Fun with toothpaste caps

One day Tortoise was walking through the veld. He was looking and looking. Hegazed into the distance and squinted at the grass.Then he went past Snail. "Are you looking for something?" Snail asked."Yes, Snail, I'm looking for my house. Have youseen it, by any chance?" Snail said: "No, I haven't, but I'll help you look!"She climbed onto Tortoise's shell. Tortoise walked on with Snail on his back. Theylooked and looked, but there was no sign of a house. The sun was high in the sky. A little later they passed Sparrow."Are you looking for something?" asked Sparrow."Yes, Sparrow, I'm looking for my house. Have you seen it, by any chance?"Sparrow said: "No, I haven't, but I'll help you look!" He flapped his wings and hewhizzed away."But you're going too fast forme," complainedTortoise.Sparrow came back. "Alright,then I'll hop on too." Tortoise carried on, with Snailand Sparrow perchedon his shell. They looked andlooked, but there wasno sign of a house. The sun hadinched lower in thesky. A little later they passed Ladybird."Are you looking for something?" asked Ladybird."Yes, Ladybird, I'm looking for my house. Have you seen it, by any chance?" Ladybird said: "No, I haven't,but I'll help you look!"She hopped onto Tortoise'sback and on he went,with Snail and Sparrow andLadybird sitting on hisback.They looked and looked, butthere was no sign of ahouse. A breeze started to blow. A little later they passed Mouse. He was making a garland of daisies."Are you looking for something?" asked Mouse."Yes, Mouse, I'm looking for my house. Have you seen it, by any chance?" Mouse said: "No, I haven't, butI'll help you look!"He hopped onto Tortoise's back."Wait, I can't leave my flowersbehind." Tortoise waited. Mousestretched and stretched andscooped up his daisies. Tortoise walked on, with Snailand Sparrow andLadybird and Mouse on hisback. They looked and looked,but there was no sign of ahouse. The wind swept leavesoff the ground and swirled themaround Tortoise's feet.Tortoise got tired. "You lot areheavy," he sighed. The wind got stronger. The skyturned dark."Oh, where is my house?" askedTortoise.Thunder roared in the hills.Lightning flashed in thedistance. Drip-drip came therain."Oh, where is Tortoise's house?"asked Snail and Sparrow andLadybird and Mouse. The wind whirled and whipped. Itblew Snail and Sparrow and Ladybird and Mouse right off Tortoise's back. And then came the hail, tip-tip-tip.Tortoise got such a fright he shrank into his shell. It was warm and cosy there."Oh, here is my house!" "Oh, here is Tortoise's house!"

Kala was staying with his Mom.They lived in a big house. Kalawas a spoiled boy. His Momloved him very much. He goteverything that he wanted. It was a bright, sunny Saturdaymorning. It was the start of theschool holidays.Kala woke up later than usual.He was excited and ready to goout in the street to play with hisfriends. Kala's Mom was working in hervegetable garden. She saw herson running out through thedoor. On the kitchen table there wasa big basket full of a variety offruits. Kala called out to hisMom, asking for an apple."Did you bath?'' asked his Mom."Did you brush your teeth?" sheasked too."Yes Mom!" answered Kala."Ok, you can have one," sheagreed. Kala immediately chose the biggest, juiciestapple from the fruit basket. He then dashedoutside towards his favourite playing area. After a few seconds, Mom heardKala screaming."Aah, Mom!" called Kala. "Mom, my apple is bleeding!" he said.His Mom was busy in the kitchen and Kala burst throughthe door. "Why are you making such a noise Kala," askedhis Mom. "What is it?" "My apple is bleeding, look," he said again.Kala's Mom stopped what she was doing andturned to look at her son. She had a surpriselook on her face. She took the apple from Kala's hand and looked at it."Come here and open your mouth," she order Kala."Aah," opened Kala wide. Mom bend a little and peepedinto her son's mouth. "It's not the apple that is bleeding, you little, lazy, naughty boy. It's your filthy,yellow rotting teeth!" she shouted."You do not brush your teeth as told!" she said with a cross face. All that Kala feltas he escaped through the door, was his behind getting warm from his Mom'sdish cloth!

Tilia and Max lived in Carlafonia. It was the 1960's. Their getting up routine was to get up and brush. In those days, they used to brush with wood and cream. They found it very difficult to brush because the toothbrush was made out of wood and they used cream as paste. Soon, the whole country started complaining about the paste. Granny's teeth had rot. People started putting the cans of cream in the junkyard. So one day, Mr. Wilbur, the owner of the cream factory was passing a painting and he saw the painter pouring paint out of a tube. So he got an idea. So he thought he would make pastes like painting tubes. He put in sugar and wood. And he also put in fruits, vegetables, neem and cloves. In 2 days time, the toothpastes were made. From that day on, people did'nt have to use cream!

There was a artist and his destiny was to paint.The world was colourless. So he painted the trees brown and green. And then he painted the earth brown. He painted the elephants grey with white tusks. He painted the Praying Mantis green. He painted the starfish red and white. And the seahorse was painted pale orange with green eyes. Then the artist sat on the beach and looked at the sky. It was a beautiful sight of blue and white. He wondered who painted the sky?

One time it happened in avillage that a gang of youngpeople decided to kill all the oldpeople so that they would stopdoing magic. But one of the youth ran offwith his father and hid him inthe desert. After he had done this, the gangbegan killing the old people. Just then a snake came into thevillage from the desert. Thesnake went into the stomach ofa small child. The snake kept poking its headout of the mouth of the child. The parents of the child and allthe other people triedeverything to solve thisproblem. But they saw that ifthey killed the snake theywould also kill the child. Then the young man who hadhidden his father went and toldhim everything that hadhappened.?And the old man said, "That'sthe easiest thing in the world totake care of." The old man said, "Find a toadand put it near the snake. You'llsee that the snake will comeout of the child's stomach tocatch the toad.?The young man did just whatthe old man said. And the snakecame out and started to chasethe toad. The child was savedfrom death.

Look, fire! Fire burns. Fire cooks. Fire gives warmth. Fire gives light. Look, fire! Fire is wonderful. And it is powerful.

It was a snowy morning. Oliver woke up from bed and went to the bathroom, to brush his teeth. Then he took his bath. His mom gave him his breakfast. He ate it and packed his bag to school. The school bus came to pick him up at 7am. He was very excited because he was eager to sign up for the upcoming cross country race at his school. His teacher told him that he could sign up, but he needed to practice well and take care of his health and keep fit. Oliver loved to eat chocolates, muffins, cookies and chips. He could be found munching on these, all the time. He became very fat and could hardly play with his pup. He really had a bad time at school with all the kids teasing him. While playing a game of tag at school, he could not even run! He expressed to his mom, all that he was going through. His mom felt very sad for him but she made him understand that he has to give up his unhealthy eating habits and turn a new leaf. To take part in the race, he needed to be fit. So his mom signed him up in a gym nearby, and in swimming classes to get him fit. He got very tired after the school and the gym class. He felt so bad, that he could not go to the running race, because he was fat! So he started to exercise with vigour and enthusiasm. Because of the training in the gym and eating healthy food, Oliver got fit and felt very happy. It was Sports day at school and his teacher wished him good luck, pleased with his efforts. He ran so fast and won the race! Everyone cheered him, "Oliver is the fastest, Oliver is the fastest", and he got a huge Golden trophy for securing the 1st place. He hugged his mom and thanked her for all her support and felt very happy and proud of his achievement.

There lived a cute and happy family consists of three members, mother and her two children. They lived very peaceful and happy life. Ram, sita and Shanta. Once their mother fall ill and died after 1 week. Poor Ram and sita they are just small kids they don't know what had happened to their mother. They had no one except their mother but she is no more. They don't even had money to eat and drink. Ram used to work as a child labour and earn a little amoun of money for his sister sita. He takes care of his sister very well, he never keep his sister hunger and sad. He educate his sister in a government school and make her big officer. After some years later. She cry about how her brother Ram looks after his sister from her food to education. she became an officer in a big company and brings a salary of 50,000 per month, and takes a decision that now her time to take care of her brother Ram. They now settled and lead comfort and peaceful life.

Long time ago, in the village ofElunyiko, there lived a mancalled Ndong'a and his wifecalled Namukhaywa. They hadsix children. All of them weregirls. When Namukhaywa waspregnant with her seventhchild, Ndong'a warned her, "Ifyou give birth to another girl, Iwill leave you. But if you giveme a baby boy, I will hold a bigparty for you!" When it was time to give birth,Namukhaywa went to thetraditional midwife. Would thechild be a girl or a boy? It was a boy AND a girl – twins!She called the boy Mukhwana,and the girl she called Mulongo.As she looked at Mukhwana,she was very happy. But as shelooked at Mulongo, she felt sad.She felt that there was only onething she could do. Namukhaywa left Mulongo inthe care of the midwife andtook Mukhwana home to herhusband. She proudly showed Ndong'athe baby boy. He was veryhappy and called all thevillagers to celebrate the birthof his son. Mukhwana grew up to be a fineyoung man. And Mulongo grewup to be a fine young woman. One day, while minding hisfather's cattle, Mukhwana saw avery beautiful girl."This is the girl I want tomarry," he said to himself. But when he asked her to marryhim, she sang this song:"Mukhwana wefwe, Mukhwana.So yakhupa omunwa,Mukhwana.Nebebula omukhana,Mukhwana.Barulaka khulwanda,Mukhwana.Nebebula omusiani, Mukhwana.Barera mungo muno,Mukhwana.Iyeyi yakwa, Mukhwana.Iyindi yakwa, Mukhwana." This happened again and again.Mukhwana did not know whatto do. So he went to his mother,Namukhaywa."I have found a beautiful girl,"he said. "And I want to marryher. But every time I ask her,she sings the same song." To his surprise, Namukhaywasaid, "What the girl is singingabout is true. That is your sister.You were born twins. Your fatherwanted a son, not a daughter.So I left your baby sister withthe midwife, and brought youhome to your father." When Mukhwana told his fatherthe story, he saw that he hadbeen wrong. He calledNamukhaywa and together theywent to the midwife to fetchMulongo. When Mulongo arrived home,her father and the village eldersslaughtered a goat andperformed the traditionalceremony forre-uniting Mulongo and herseven siblings. A year later, Mulongo wasmarried to the son of the richking of that village. She broughta lot of wealth and happiness toher family.

A long time ago, in the villageof Nyamani, there lived a manknown as Kiundu.He liked to eat meat a lot. One day, the chief of Nyamanivillage invited all the villagersto his son's wedding. Kiundu also heard that therewas another wedding party inKatumbi village."Ugh! Two parties on the sameday!" Kiundu thought. "I must attend both parties,"Kiundu said."I will first walk to Katumbi thencome back to Nyamani." Kiundu woke up early in themorning and walked to Katumbivillage.He looked around and saw thatthe party had not yet started."I will go back to Nyamani andreturn to Katumbi later," Kiundudecided. Kiundu walked back to Nyamanihoping to find the meat ready.He was now very hungry.When he arrived, men were stillpreparing the food. "I left cooks at Katumbipreparing to cook," he thought."The food must be ready now."Kiundu decided to go back toKatumbi. When Kiundu arrived at theKatumbi party, people hadalready eaten.Guests were giving presents tothe bride and the groom.Kiundu was very mean.He did not have a present togive. He only wanted to eat. Kiundu was very disappointedabout missing the food.He decided to walk back toNyamani village.Because he was hungry andtired, he could not walk fast. When he arrived at Nyamanivillage, people were singing anddancing.They had already eaten all thefood. Upon hearing that there was nofood, Kiundu fell and fainted.He had missed meat from bothparties.All he got was some porridge ina small cup. Slowly, he walked home sadand hungry.

Bzzz...Hey, what's all that buzz about?Is it a code word used by bees to call their friends? Or a hum of excitement when honey is spotted? Bees, particularly bumble bees, make a loud buzzing sound as they fly. The sound is made when the wings beat up and down. The smaller the wings, the faster the bees have to beat them in order to fly. And the quicker they beat, the louder the buzz. Bees also buzz to do something very useful; they carry pollen from one flower to the other like a postman delivering letters. Pollen is the powdery grain on flowers. Pollen helps plants to make seeds. Bees are excellent pollinators. Thanks to them, many new plants grow and sprout all around. How do those tiny grains of pollen stick to the bees' feet?When bees sit on a flower to suck honey, the grains of pollen stick to their feet and bodies. Then when the same bees buzz near a flower and perform a lively dance, the quivering shakes the pollen off on other flowers. The bees then fly to other flowers where they leave the pollen behind to pick up new ones and this process continues. Bees are the buzzing godfathers of many new plants that grow away from the parent-tree.Can you hear your own breath? Usually not. But you can hear a bee breathing. That is because the buzz is also the sound of the bee breathing. It has a small, segmented body so when it breathes, the air gets on a roller coaster ride through all those bumpy parts inside and creates a buzz.Sounds pretty exciting, doesn't it? Aren't those busy bees truly amazing? DID YOU KNOW?1. Bees are hard workers. In winter, they can live up to nine months and in summer only up to two months. All work and no play does not make them dull.2. A curious case of the bees is that when they do the work of a younger bee, their brain stops ageing. It starts working like a younger bees' brain. Do you now wish you were a bee?3. Bees recognize faces just like human beings do. Each part of the face is first taken separately, then put together to make up the face. Remember not to anger a bee! 4. Caffeine, a chemical used by plants to keep away harmful insects, helps bees remember the location of the flower. It welcomes the bees for a second visit.5. Bumble bees are larger than honey bees and other types of bees. They live in hives and love to socialise. Many bumble bees do not have a sting. They may not produce much honey but are excellent pollinators. Activity Page1. A honey bee performs a dance that tells the rest of the hive where to find nectar. Now try to express some information through dance moves, and see if your friends are able to understand what you are communicating!2. Try buzzing like a bee... flap your arms and see if you can hear a buzz. 3. A honeycomb, the house of the bees, is known to be a masterpiece of engineering. Why do you think? Try and draw perfect hexagons as in a honeycomb. Or make models using ordinary cartons. Maybe you'll guess the answer then!4. Try to carefully smell different flowers. You could then imagine how honey made from the nectar of different flowers can also taste different.

Selemeng loves cats.There are many catsat her house. Selemeng has oneblack cat.This cat eatsa lot of meat. Selemeng has onefat cat.This cat eatseverything. Cat number three,runs up a tree.This cat gets stuckin the tree. Selemeng climbsthe tree.She gets stuckwith cat three.Selemeng's motherhas to helpthem get down. Selemeng has twolazy cats.They lie outsidein the sunall day. Selemeng has threebusy cats.They catch ratsin the kitchenat night. Selemeng hasone dog.His name isLirafi.Lirafi hasno friends.He is sad. Selemeng's catsdo not likeLirafi.They chase himout of the house.Lirafi runs away. Selmeng finds Lirafiand brings himhome.The cats are nothappy.They do notwant to seeLirafi again. How many catsdoes Selemenghave?She has eightcats. How many dogsdoes Selemenghave?She has one dog.Where is Lirafinow? How many catsdo you haveat home?How many dogsdo you haveat home?

Lord Indra was worried sick! He had been away for so long, engaged in protecting heaven and coming up with new war tactics, that he had completely forgotten about his duties of sending clouds to a certain part of eastern India.As a result, that area was struck with drought. The rivers went dry and the trees and plants began to die. People were in distress. Their prayers and pleas had reached Indra, but because of the ongoing battle in heaven he couldn't come down himself and relieve them of their miseries. But Indra was a strategist and a witty God. He ordered one of his beloved pets, a cute blue dragon to become his substitute and visit this land struck with drought.This blue dragon unlike other dragons didn't breath fire. He instead had a unique ability to breath clouds! Large puffy clouds.He was a playful dragon and just like his master was witty and intelligent! He loved flying over the golden sun, high in the sky and over the deep green pastures of land below . But what he loved the most was, making clouds - clouds of all types, shapes and sizes. Lord Indra told the blue dragon that he could make as many clouds as he wanted and could fly wherever he wanted to, but he needs to be careful that he doesn't come in contact with water. If that happens he will lose all his powers and become a human! Even a single drop of water could cost him his powers.Now, the blue dragon loved being the cloud breathing dragon, and was puzzled with this clause. How was he to avoid water, when bringing rain to the land was the primary task assigned to him! He thought about it for days and then an idea dawned upon him. He would get wet in the rain only if he was under the clouds, but not if he was on top of them.So, the blue dragon made a huge blue rain cloud that covered the central part of the dry land. This cloud was monstrous in size and heavy enough to take the weight of a dragon.After the cloud was ready, the dragon hopped upon it and struck lightning. Rains came down from the clouds and quenched the land's thirst. The blue dragon spent the rest of his days living in his new home and making more and more clouds. These clouds brought rains to the land, filling the rivers with sweet water and nourishing and ripening the earth. People were happy once again.And because the blue dragon made so many clouds, some of them would float their way down on the lands and into people's homes.And from that day on wards this land came to be known as Meghalay the land of clouds.

This my daughter Polar. She is a good girl. She likes telling stories. Her mother tells her stories. Polar tells her friends too One day Polar told a very goodstory. The story was aboutcooking. Her teacher gave her acake and all becamehappy.

Once upon a time there was a HAUNTED HOUSE . One day a boy was going to his friend's house.Suddenly he heard some strange sound coming from the lane. He got very curious he wanted to go inside the house, he wanted to see what is inside it. Then he went inside the house. He did not know which house is it. But suddenly he remembered that his mother always advised him not to go to stranger's house. He did not listen to his mother's word and he opened the gate and went inside because he was very curious. He heard some strange sound and he got scared. He saw one ghost coming out of the room and going in. The boy got very scared he ran to the second floor but he did not see anybody. Then suddenly wind was blowing on his face and he could not see who is blowing the wind on his face because it was very fast. Then the boy ran to third floor. He saw a man and asked him," Why are you crying? The man said," I was on the road searching for the barber's shop. Then I saw this HAUNTED HOUSE ". The man did not know that this house was haunted and he thought that this is a barber's shop. And when he entered the house he got scared and he came to the third floor. The man told the boy that he was here since 50 days! The boy said that he did not know that this is a haunted house. And the boy told the man that he was going to his friends house and he heard some strange sound coming from the house so he ran to the house. The man got an idea!. He recollected once a guy was trying to cross the road putting on his headphones and so he was not scared of the traffic since he could not hear the noises of the traffic. But the man said that where we will get these headphones from. The boy said he always carries two headphones with him, one for himself and another for his friend. Both of them put on their headphones and easily got out of the haunted house. And then they went back to their homes safely ever after.

Hyena and Raven were once great friends,even though they were quite different in some ways. Raven could fly but Hyena was only able to walk. One day Hyena, curious to know something about his friend, asked Raven, “What is this white thing which is always below your neck?”Raven answered, “It is the fatty meat which I usually eat in the sky. I have been eating it for so long now it is stuck on my neck.”On hearing about meat, saliva started pouring out of Hyena's mouth for he was greedy and he loved meat very much.Hyena really wanted to eat that meat. But how could he reach the meat in the sky if he had no wings to fly?“Please my friend,” he asked Raven, “lend me some feathers so that I can make myself some wings. I really want to be able to fly like you.” Raven was not mean, so he gave him some feathers. Hyena sewed them together into wings. He fastened them to his body, and tried to take off into the sky. But he was far too heavy for the few feathers to carry him. So he had to think of another plan. “Please my friend,” he asked Raven, “could I hold onto your tail as you fly up into the sky?”“All right,” said Raven. “I know how much you want to fly. Let's do it tomorrow morning.”When day came, Hyena took hold of Raven's tail and Raven flew up into the sky. Raven flew and flew and flew until he was exhausted. But Hyena said, “Just a littlefurther, my friend!” He could see the whiteand fatty meat just above them, and hismouth was watering. When they reached the first piece of fatty meat, Hyena felt a jerk. One of Raven's tail feathers came off in his hand! Then there was another jerk, and another.Raven felt much lighter, and the ache in his tail was going. He sang: Raven's feathers, unpluck yourselves. Raven's feathers, unpluck yourselves.In response, Hyena sang the opposite: Raven's feathers hold on, don't unpluck yourselves. Raven's feathers hold on, don't unpluck yourselves. Finally, the feathers could not hold Hyena anymore. He was in the middle of nowhere in the sky. He jumped onto the fatty meat thinking that as he ate, the fatty meat would hold him. But as he tried to hold and eat the ‘meat', all he felt was moist cloud! By now he was falling fast.“Help, help!” he shouted.But no one could hear him.Raven was lost in the clouds. Hyena fell on the ground with a crash and lay silent for some minutes. He woke up howling in pain, with a broken leg and dark scars all over his body. From that day to now, Hyena limps and hehas many scars on his body. He has neverbeen able to fly. And he and Raven are no longer friends.

Thandi woke up happy and shewanted to play before going toschool. Grandma says to Thandi "you willbe late for your bus Thandi"Thandi replies "I will go nowgrandma"Thandi leaves 5 minutes later... Thandi goes to the bus stop toolate.The bus has left... The old man asked "why are youcrying child"Thandi replies "I missed my schoolbus"The old man says "I will walk you toschool". The old man askes Thandi "Is thatyour school".Thandi replies "Yes it is. Thank you"The old man leaves her at school. Thandi tells her teacher and friend'sabout she missed her bus and thenice, old man who helped her. THE END

Starry cloudfire, the dragon, lived in cloud haeven. He was'nt a normal dragon who could breathe fire, he could breathe clouds. Every day, he sat by his window and watched the fire breathing dragons play with their fire. Starry wished he was one of them. One day, Zeus, the Greek god, invited all the dragons of cloud haeven to a party at his palace. Starry was very excited. On his way to the palace, he came across an unfamiliar land. Then, Starry noticed that this land was on a drought. He wanted to bring back life into the land. So after 2 days, the land rejoiced for Starry had brought life back to the land. They made Starry their new heir. So after all the rejoicing, Starry went to king Zeus's party. King Zeus heard the story of the land and gave him a boon that he could breathe fire, ice, clouds, water and grass. Starry refused to accept the boon. Can you guess what he wanted? He just wanted to live a happy life in the land of the unknown.

This is the story of Togar, the Honeyguide, and a greedy youngman named Gartee.One day while Gartee was out hunting he heard the call of Togar.Gartee's mouth began to water at the thought of honey. Hestopped and listened carefully, searching until he saw the bird inthe branches above his head."Chitik-chitik-chitik," the little bird rattled, as he flew to the nexttree, and the next."Chitik, chitik, chitik," he called, stopping from time to time to besure that Gartee followed. After half an hour, they reached ahuge wild fig tree.Togar hopped about madly amongthe branches. He then settled onone branch and cocked his head atGartee as if to say, "Here it is!Come now! What is taking you solong?"Gartee couldn't see any bees fromunder the tree, but he trusted Togar. So Gartee put down his huntingspear under the tree, gatheredsome dry twigs and made a smallfire.When the fire was burning well, heput a long dry stick into the heart ofthe fire. This wood was especiallyknown to make lots of smoke whileit burned.He began climbing, holding the coolend of the smoking stick in histeeth. Soon he could hear the loudbuzzing of the busy bees. Theywere coming in and out of a hollowin the tree trunk – their hive.When Gartee reached the hive hepushed the smoking end of the stickinto the hollow.The bees came rushing out, angryand mean. They flew away becausethey didn't like the smoke – but notbefore they had given Gartee somepainful stings! When the bees were out, Garteepushed his hands into the nest. Hetook out handfuls of the heavycomb, dripping with rich honey andfull of fat, white grubs.He put the comb carefully in thepouch he carried on his shoulder,and started to climb down the tree. Togar eagerly watched everythingthat Gartee was doing. He waswaiting for him to leave a fat pieceof honeycomb as a thank-youoffering to the Honeyguide.Togar flittered from branch tobranch, closer and closer to theground. Finally Gartee reached thebottom of the tree.Togar perched on a rock near theboy and waited for his reward. But, Gartee put out the fire, picked up his spear and startedwalking home, ignoring the bird.Togar called out angrily, "VIC-torr! VIC-torrr!"Gartee stopped, stared at the little bird and laughed aloud. "Youwant some honey, do you, my friend? Ha! But I did all the work,and got all the stings. Why should I share any of this lovely honeywith you?" Then he walked off.Togar was furious! This was no way to treat him! But he would gethis revenge. One day several weeks later Gartee again heard the honey call ofthe Honeyguide, Togar. He remembered the delicious honey, andeagerly followed the bird once again.After leading Gartee along the edge of the forest, Togar stopped torest in a great umbrella thorn. "Ahh," thought Gartee."The hive must be in this tree." He quickly made his small fire andbegan to climb, the smoking branch in his teeth. Togar sat andwatched. Gartee climbed, wondering why he didn't hear the usual buzzing."Perhaps the hive is deep in the tree," he thought to himself.He pulled himself up another branch. But instead of the hive, hewas staring into the face of a leopard!Leopard was very angry at having her sleep so rudely interrupted.She narrowed her eyes, opened her mouth to reveal her very largeand very sharp teeth. Before Leopard could take a swipe at Gartee, he rushed down thetree.In his hurry he missed a branch, and landed with a heavy thud onthe ground twisting his ankle. He hobbled off as fast as he could.Luckily for him, Leopard was still too sleepy to chase him.Togar, the Honeyguide, had his revenge.And Gartee learned his lesson. And so, when the children of Garteehear the story of Togar they haverespect for the little bird.Whenever they harvest honey, theymake sure to leave the biggest partof the comb for Honeyguide!

There was once a boy called Raj.He lived with his mother in a small house.He had no father,and was very poor.His mother was very kind and taught Raj everything about helping other people. One day at Raj's school, his teacher said that they would go and visit the Museum.Raj's mother gave him a small backpackwith a water bottleand his lunch.She gave Raj 20 Rupeesand told him,:"Use this Money onlyfor an emergency, not to buy sweets. Ok?" "Ok", replied Raj. As he left in his school bus, he remembered what his mother said.At the Museum, he had a lot of fun with the other Kids.3 hours later, as Raj and his class were going to leave the Museum, Raj had to tie his shoelace. He bent down quickly and tied it. Just as he stood up, he suddenly saw a man fall down. "HELP, HELP!", theman called.Raj ran and asked if he was okay, and bought a bottle of water from a shop nearby. He went back and gave it to the old man, who drankit down slowly. The man thanked Raj, and Raj ran back to his school bus. Luckily the bus was still there. But his teacher was very mad."Where were you?", she shouted," We were waiting for you!"As Raj went back home, henarrated what happened to his mother and she was very happy that he had helped someone in need. A few months later, Raj's school had a big event. Raj asked his mother if she could come too. "Ok", she said.The next day, Raj and his mother got ready to go to the school event.Raj had a lot of fun playing with all of his friends, and soon it was time for the prize distribution. Raj's mother asked him to come in quickly and said thatRaj's name was called 5 times.As he walked to the stage to get his prize, he thought he knew the man on stage. But he could not remember. As he went to get the prize, the man said "Do you remember me?" Raj shook his head. "You helped me.", he said.Now Raj remembered." How are you?" he asked." I am fine", said Raj."You are a very nice and kind little boy", the man said. And he gave him a huge trophy which said "The Most Kindest Person".I would also like to help you with anything you need. Please come and meet me later with your mother. Raj was very happy and his mother was very proud of her son.THE END

Little hat, big hat.  Little hands, big hands.  Little goat, big goat.  Little book, big book.  Little smile, big smile.  The end.

The worms laid smalleggs on the leaves. We fed them mulberryleaves. They grew bigger andbecame fatter. The larvae made silkcocoons. Inside the cocoons, theworms turned intopupae. Some people breedsilkworms for a certainpurpose. In China they keepthousands of kinds ofsilkworms. They make silk clothsusing their cocoons.

The moon and the stars were very good friends. After Mr. Sun would go home in the evening, they would all come out to play in the night's sky and light up the whole world with their sparkle! The stars would slide on the moon, dance around him and play hide and seek. This would go late into the wee hours after midnight.It was indeed a beautiful and celestial sight - The midnight sky, the silver moon with it's cool golden beam and the sparkling stars. The children down below, enjoyed viewing the magical playground above. One night Mr. Moon slept in as he was feeling tired and was not in the mood to play. But the stars came out on time and began to call out to Mr. Moon."Mr. Moon, Mr. Moon come out now. Let's play catch and cook" But there was no response.After having waited for a while, the stars began to play among-st themselves. Seeing this, Mr. Moon went red with anger. He felt neglected and like a little child he came out screaming and shouting at the stars. He said some very harsh and mean things to them. The stars felt hurt and left the night's sky never wanting to return. For many days the stars didn't come out. The sky looked empty and vacant. Mr. Moon was very sad. He missed the stars. The children below too were sad to see the lonely moon.One evening, Mr. Sun before leaving for his home, called out to Mr. Moon and said " My dear Mr. Moon, you miss your star friends so much. You know you have done a wrong thing by saying such harsh things to them. Now make up for your mistake by apologizing and calling out to them".Mr. Moon saw sense and began to call out to the stars. He apologized for his behavior and invited them warmly to play with him. The stars listened to Mr. Moon and accepted his apology and thanked him for his invitation. The stars came gushing out and filled the sky with glitter and star dust once again! The moon was only too happy to see his friends after a long lonely gap.The sky looked beautiful once again with the moon, the stars, and the all the glitter.The children too were happy to see the sparkling sky and the bright moon amongst the diamond like stars.

I dance when I am happy,I dance when I am sad,I dance when I am lonely,I dance when I am mad. My teacher says,"Sit still!Don't dance about allday." But my mother says,"Dancing makes youhealthy,Dancing makes you tall,One day you'll be adancer,And surprise them all!" And I say,"One dayI'll dance and peoplewill payJust to see me leap andtwirl.'Her dancing is SOgood,' they'll say."

There lived a girl called Mavis, she was a fifth grader. At home she grew a garden with all sorts of things like tomatoes, flowers, and potatoes. She took very good care of her garden. So, it all started one day when Mavis was at school, she heard about a poster on the wall. She was so curious that she wanted to check this poster out after school.So it was after school when Mavis was searching for that poster everyone was talking about. And as she was passing through the lunch hall she immediately bumped into the poster. The poster was about a competition of the amazing fruits, veggies, and flowers. The date this competition was held on was tomorrow and the time was 9 A. M. to 9 P. M. She took a picture of the poster with her phone and went home. The next day she went to her garden and couldn't believe her eyes, because one of her tomatoes had grown extremely large. Mavis remembered the competition, so she got ready to go to the competition with her extremely large or over grown tomato. she reach exactly when they started to hand out the awards. Mavis got first place in all the veggie competition which were largest tomato, tallest tomato, tastiest tomato and the best name for a tomato which was “The huge beauty”. She even won the happiest girl award but that is another story.The end

Everyone knows that the elephant has a very long nose. But a long time ago, the elephant's nose was short and fat. Like a shoe in the middle of its face. One day a baby elephant was born. She was curious about everything. She had a question for every animal. She was curious about Giraffe. "Why do you have a long neck?" she asked. She was curious about Rhino. "Why does your horn have a sharp point?" She was curious about Hippo. "Why do you have red eyes?" she asked. And she was VERY curious about Crocodile. "What does Crocodile eat for dinner?" she asked. "Never ask a question like that!" said her mother. Then she walked off, frowning. Quickly Crow flew down to baby elephant. "Follow me to the river. There you will see what Crocodile eats for dinner," squawked Crow. So the baby elephant followed Crow down to the river. She pushed through the reeds and stood on the bank. She looked into the water. Where was Crocodile? "Hello," said a stone near the river bank. "Hello," said Baby Elephant. "Can you tell me what Crocodile eats for dinner?" she asked. "Bend down and I will tell you," said the stone. "Lower, lower," said the stone. So Baby Elephant bent down lower, and lower. Then suddenly, "Snap!" Baby Elephant's nose was caught in Crocodile's jaws. "Crocodile will eat you for dinner!" squawked Crow, and flew away. Baby Elephant sat back on her strong legs and pulled. She pulled, and pulled. But Crocodile did not let go of her nose. Baby Elephant's nose stretched, and stretched, and stretched. Then, "Thud!" she fell on her back. Crocodile sunk back into the water. He was cross about losing his dinner. Baby Elephant looked at her nose. It was stretched very long. She could not see where it ended! Her nose was so long she could pick fruit from high branches. Her nose was so long she could shower her back with water. From that day, all elephants had long and useful trunks.

Once in a sunny day in December, Rahul was playing cricket in the playground in his apartment. Suddenly a portal appeared; two hands came out and pulled Rahul and his best friend into the portal. They felt very nauseous and very anxious, because the portal was swirling like a million merry-go-rounds. When they were surely inside the portal, there appeared a great big hotel which was shining with all its might . When they went inside the hotel; several dwarf came rushing down to them. The dwarf told the surprised children that the dwarf dinosaur in the bizarre island was ascending towards them by the smell and was going to eat them . Rahul and Javed could defeat Draco (the dinosaur) because they were bigger than him; in fact they were ten feet tall for the dwarf, and five feet taller than Draco. They asked the dwarf that can they go home after the challenge, and the dwarf said they will and with an extra prize. Off they went with increasing courage to defeat him. They were not even halfway when a friendly lion appeared. They were afraid at first but when the lion asked them “Do you want to have a ride on my back, there are dangers lurking in the forest, and besides you will reach there faster". So they said they wanted to go to Draco's cave . When they reached the cave, Draco was sleeping. He woke up with a roar. They got ready to fight Draco. Suddenly a big rock came falling down just above Javed, before Rahul could do anything, Draco stopped the stone with his horns what an unexpected surprise! Draco was kind and loving and wanted to make friendship with the dwarf So they went back to the hotel riding on Draco's back. The dwarf were so afraid that they ran and hid inside the big, old bed. Rahul & Javed told the dwarf that Draco wanted to be friends with him. The dwarf took trust in them and kept Draco with them. Rahul and Javed went out of the portal after the goodbyes and they took a trophy with HONOR MEDAL inscribed on it.

Cracked brown wood Painted brown lion Soft brown bread Yummy brown cakes Old brown boots Shiny brown buffalo Woolly brown hat Smooth brown dog Dirty brown mud Wet brown skin And what is this? A clean face in a dirty mirror.

### Cast* Rita* Rakesh* Yash* Sheela* RohanA gang of friends between the ages of 11 and 14. * Vikram* Yamdoot* Yamraja* WatchmanVikram - very popular in the gang, captain of their cricket team.Yamdoot - Yamraja's messenger, has been instructed by Yamraja to bring Vikram to him.Yamraja - God of death, but here he is shown to be funny and childish, loves watching TV.Watchman - Stands outside Yamraja's palace and guards it.### Backstage* Set Design Team* Costume Design Team* Light and Sound Designers* Prop Makers* Chorus### The making of this playIt is great fun to be able to act and direct plays on your own. When Meera Dixit was looking for a contemporary play that could be enjoyable as well as easy to perform by students, she could not find the right one for the situation. So she wrote this play which her students could stage without professional help. It was first staged in 2011 and has been a big hit with students every time it has been performed.### Designing the costumes for Yamraja and YamdootBe creative. Use paper, newspaper, thermacol and other material available in school to create the settings.This play works well with three settings - the garden where the characters first meet, an indoor room, and Yamraja's durbar. Three of the characters need specific costumes, or just headgear and jewellery to set them apart from the other characters. They could wear beaded necklaces and head gear made out of papier mache.### Music and dramaMake up a jingle or a chorus. A few singers could sing these with musical accompaniments from the wings to set the mood for a scene, or to add drama to important moments in the play.### No permission neededYou must have observed that at the end of most plays in books, there is a line that states that you need the permission of the playwright to stage the play. However, to stage this play you need not do so as it is copyright-free. This means you can stage the play as you wish. Feel free to incorporate new ideas.### Scene 1When the curtain opens, there are a few children on stage, in a garden setting. They are discussing something.__Rita:__ Hey, have you heard about Vikram? It seems he has malaria. No wonder he had such a high fever!__Rakesh:__ Yes, I heard about it. I spoke to his mother yesterday. She said that he is finally being treated with the right medicines.__Sheela:__ Poor fellow, how on earth is he going to write his exams now?__Yash:__ Silly girl, how can he be a poor fellow? Lucky he can't write the exams. How I envy him! No studying, no tension, no mother breathing down his neck. Just lie there waiting to get better... Poor fellow, my foot. _(Going near Rita)_ Look at me, all I do is study all day.__Rita:__ _(laughs)_ Naturally you have to study all day. How will you pass otherwise, stupid?__Yash:__ Don't you have anything better to do than to pull my leg? Wait till I tell the gang about what you did the other day! You know, she... _(Rita stops him.)___Rita:__ Sh! Sh! If you say anything more I will...__Rohan:__ Oh no! The third world war is about to begin. You two never give up, do you?__Yash:__ It's her, she is so.. so.. so... irritating! Just because she studies well she thinks no end of herself.__Rita:__ I don't give up! Ha! It's Yash who starts the fight, not me.__Rohan:__ Stop it, you two! You're worse than kids. Hurry up, don't you remember we have to go and see Vikram?_(Yash and Rita are making faces at one another. All depart from one wing of the stage. Return to the stage from another wing)_.### Scene 2_(This is Vikram's home. The children can hear Vikram speaking to an unfamiliar voice. As they enter they can see that Vikram is talking to someone. This person is dressed weirdly, and looks like a mythological character. He is Yamdoot, Yamraj's messenger.)___Yamdoot:__ _(Yamdoot is talking to Vikram who is lying on his bed)_ Come on child. I am Yamdoot and you must come with me. _(Takes out something from his pocket.)_ See, it says here clearly that your expiry date has come, my dear. So you will now have to say good bye to the world and come with me to my world. __Vikram:__ _(Looks confused)_ What do you mean come with me to my world? Who, may I know, has sent you? _(pointing to the paper)_ And what is that?_(Vikram is trying to look at the paper, Yamdoot is trying to pull him out of the bed and all the while gazing at the clock. The children are watching all this and are trying to figure out what is happening)_.__Vikram:__ Hey! What are you doing? Why are you trying to lift me? Listen...__Yamdoot:__ I am Yamdoot, Yamraj's messenger. And, I do not have to listen to you. I only listen to my boss. Understood? Come on, get up! _(looks at his paper)_ We have to leave. Once I hand you over to Yamraj, I have an immediate appointment in Delhi. You see, we Yamdoots are very busy these days.Hey, _(goes very close to Vikram)_ let me tell you something. I love to work overtime, we get paid well for that. But enough is enough. We have to leave now kiddo, too much overtime is not good either. _(He is about to drag Vikram out and leave when the children decide to take action.)___Yash:__ _(steps out and stops him)_ Hey, who are you and what are you doing?__Sheela:__ Yes, tell us....__Rita:__ _(Walks around Yamdoot, looking very official)_ So you call yourself Yamdoot. And where do you think you are taking Vikram? _(Yamdoot has a firm grip on Vikram's hand)___Vikram:__ _(looking surprised)_ Hello all of you!__Rakesh:__ Hi! How are you feeling now, Vikram?__Vikram:__ Better, much better. But never mind me. Meet my visitor who calls himself Yamdoot. _(Yamdoot glares)_He says Yamraj has ordered him to take me to his abode.__Rakesh:__ He is going to take you? Where? _(looks up)___Sheila:__ This is too much!__Rohan:__ Yamdoot, whom are you taking with you? Him? _(points to Vikram)_ Without our permission? How dare you!__Yash:__ _(Putting his hand on Yamdoot's shoulder)_ Listen Yambhaiyya. This is Vikram, our best friend and the head of our gang.__Sheela:__ _(Shoving Yash aside)_ Also the captain of our cricket team!__Rakesh:__ All right. So he has malaria. That does not mean that you can pick him up and take him away.__Rita:__ This is simply not acceptable! It's sheer dadagiri!__Rohan:__ This is not dadagiri. This is Yamgiri my dear. Yamgiri!_(By now Yamdoot is thoroughly irritated, and very confused. He is touching his moustache knowing full well that if he does not take Vikram to Yamraj all hell will break loose. The very idea is frightening and he looks worried.)___Yash:__ Nothing doing Yambhai. You cannot take Vikram with you and that's final. _(tries to pull Vikram towards him, Yamdoot does likewise.)___Yamdoot:__ I am very confused.__Rakesh:__ We can see that. _(laughs)_ Anyway, one thing is definite. Vikram is not going anywhere. Is that clear?__Rohan:__ How can you just take him like that?__Yash:__ You need to have some sense to understand things. _(Yamdoot puts his hands to his head, getting quite angry)___Yamdoot:__ Hey Bhagwan! _(Realizes his mistake)_ Yamraj what do I do now? Why don't these kids understand that Vikram has to go with me.Come, we are getting very late. _(Pulls him. Rohan stands in front of them like a shield. Holds on to Yamdoot.)___Yamdoot:__ _(Upset)_ What shall I do with you now?__Rohan:__ Whatever you want. I am all yours.__Yash:__ _(Laughs)_ Ya, so what was Rakesh telling you my friend?__Yamdoot:__ Me?__Yash:__ Yes you.__Rohan:__ We were telling you that this is the 21st century and this is India.__Sheela:__ And malaria is not a deadly disease here any longer. __Rohan:__ Besides, there are medicines available now to cure malaria which Vikram is taking.__Sheela:__ It is only a matter of time before he gets better. Here, look at his medicines _(Drags Yamdoot to the medicines. He is worried.)___Vikram:__ Yes, see these are my tablets. And my fever is almost gone.__Rita:__ There you go. He is going to be fit and fine in just a few days. _(Stamps her foot by mistake on Yamdoot's foot.)___Yamdoot:__ Awww...__Sheela:__ Anyway, now you know that in India malaria is a curable disease. So how can you take him away?__Rakesh:__ Go find another target.__Yamdoot:__ Ha! How can Vikram get better? _(Takes out the paper)_ Look at the expiry date. It is now. So stop all your nonsense. _(Shoves the kids away.)_ I must leave with him. He has to die._(The kids start beating Yamdoot)___Yash:__ If anybody has to die it is YOU not him. _(pointing to Vikram)___Yamdoot:__ Oh god.. please stop beating me! Are your fists made of iron! Oh stop... I'm dying!__Yash:__ Oh, this was just a sample of what is to come. Do you want to see what is in store for you?__Yamdoot:__ No, no! _(in a pitiable voice)___Rohan:__ _(Holding Yamdoot)_ Alright. But only on one condition. Vikram goes no where. Or else... _(raised hand)___Yamdoot:__ That is not possible. He has to go with me. If I do not produce him in Yamraj's darbar, I will lose my job. How will I run my house then? How expensive things have become...__Sheela:__ Who cares about your job!__Rita:__ Fine. If you insist on taking Vikram, you can.__Yamdoot:__ Really? _(eyes lit up)___Rakesh:__ Yes, but only on one condition. If you take him you have to take all of us too...__Sheela:__ ...as we want to meet this Yamraj.__Rakesh:__ Yes, we want to meet him. Who is he to decide that just because Vikram has malaria he must be taken away?_(They all surround Yamdoot shouting slogans. By now Yamdoot is at his wit's end. He knows that now he has no choice.)___Chorus:__ Down with bullies! Down, down bullies!__Yamdoot:__ Ok, let's all go. But please stop hitting me. See how red my cheeks have become! Let Yamraj decide what to do next. Let's go. _(Everybody departs from the stage.)_ ### Scene 3_(They now enter Yamraj's darbar. They are continuously screaming and shouting. There is a gate keeper standing there.)___Gatekeeper:__ Hoi! _(Sees Yamdoot)_ Ah! Yamdoot ji, why have you picked up so many children? _(Looks at something that looks like a register)_You were supposed to bring only one child but you seem to have brought a whole cricket team. Your math was always a little weak. _(Gatekeeper smiles to himself)___Yamdoot:__ Oh god, here I am almost dead, and he is teasing me?! Do you think I am stupid? _(to the gatekeeper)_ Can't you see? Look at me! Look at my clothes, my cheeks – they are red and I am in pain. Bully!_(By now the children are getting, very impatient. They are dying to meet Yamraj. Rohan is holding on to Vikram's hand in a firm grip)___Yamdoot:__ These kids just did not want to listen to anything I said. They insisted that if I took Vikram they would come along too. And when I said no, they slapped me. Look at my cheeks.__Rohan:__ Naturally! All Vikram has is malaria and he is going to get well soon. Who is Yamraj to pick on Vikram for no reason?__Gatekeeper:__ _(Now he too looks worried)_ Sh! Sh! Don't talk so loudly. What if Yamraj hears you? No one has dared to speak about him in such a manner!__Rakesh:__ Are you letting us in or shall we....?_(they are about to pounce on the gatekeeper when Yamraj's voice can be heard from inside.)___Yamraj:__ What a lot of noise! Who is that? How dare someone disturb me! Everyone in my kingdom knows I watch cartoon network at this time. No one disturbs me at this hour!__Yamraj:__ Aaaah, so much noise! I hate noise. Send them in. ‘Down, down, Yamraj!' in my kingdom? That too in my own house? How dare they!_(Children enter Yamraj's den pushing the gatekeeper)___Gatekeeper:__ _(to the children)_ Now look what you have done! Yamraj is angry. _(A little scared)_ Sorry Maharaj, but there are some children here. They say they are from India.__Yamraj:__ Some children have come from India! Where is Yamdoot? I had asked only for one boy, Vikram, to be brought. Has Yamdoot brought him or not?__Yamdoot:__ Yes Maharaj, I have brought him. But his friends insisted on coming along too. They just would not listen to me, Maharaj. They forced me to bring them too and beat me up when I refused. Look at my cheeks, they are so red._(The kids are impatient. hey are shouting ‘Down, down, Yamraj! ‘Yamraj Hai Hai')_ ### Scene 4__Sheela:__ Eee... Yamraj! The real Yamraj! Wait till I tell everyone when we get back home!__Rohan:__ _(On seeing Yamraj)_ Wow, I can't believe this. You actually exist!__Rakesh:__ _(Puts his hand on Yamraj's shoulder. Yamraj is stunned. Nobody has had the guts to do this before.)_ Hi Yamraj, how are you?__Yamraj:__ _(Shoving his hand aside)_ Hey, hope you know who you're talking to! I am Yamraj. Yamraj. _(Stands straight)_ The whole world is afraid of me, do you understand?__Sheela:__ So what? I am Sheela, Sheela from Mumbai, India. _(The kids are discussing something with one another)___Yamraj:__ _(yelling)_ Stop it at once! I hate noise. Just tell me who among you is Vikram. Let him come forward. He should have been dead long ago. We cannot delay his death any further. We all have our targets. I want only Vikram! _(Everyone holds on to Vikram)___Rita:__ What do you mean you want Vikram? I want a Mercedes Benz. But does that mean I will get one?__Rohan:__ You don't always get what you want.__Yash:__ Well, this time you are not getting what you want. And if you want Vikram you must want us all.__Sheela:__ Buy one, get five free! You will more than meet your target. How's that?__Rita:__ Yamraj, Vikram has malaria. It's not a life threatening disease. Don't you know that? And you have the cheek to call yourself Yamraj _(laughs – Yamdoot hears the word Cheek and realizes that he is in pain.)___Chorus:__ Down, down, Yamraj!__Yamraj:__ Quiet! I can't stand noise. This is too much. _(to Yamdoot)_ Where have you picked up these many kids from? I had asked you to bring only one but this is an entire cricket team! __Yamdoot:__ Yamraj, I had gone to Vikram's house and just as I was about to take him away these kids came and insisted on coming with me. When I said I wanted only Vikram, they pounced on me and beat me up. Look at my cheeks, they are so red. They said that I could not take Vikram alone _(Yamraj is trying to pull Vikram towards him. The kids are pulling him towards them.)___Yamraj:__ These kids are from India you say?__Yamdoot:__ Yes Maharaj, these days you hear a lot about how they fight injustice. They stand united and are ready to die for a just cause.__Yamraj:__ But I have not seen any children standing up for a just cause. These kids seem special.__Yash:__ Of course we are special! Find a better excuse to pick up someone, Yamraj.__Rita:__ No way... We will not let go of Vikram and if you want him, you will have to keep us too. _(They are all talking at the same time. Yamdoot and gate keeper are stunned. Yamraj hates noise they know.)___Yamraj:__ Stop it, how many times do I have to tell you that I hate noise. Wait, _(takes out his diary)_ I have never seen kids like you before. Never seen children so loyal to one another. Hats off to all you kids from India. _(Starts to cry. The kids are amused to see him cry)___Rita:__ Yamraj is crying. I can't believe this.__Yamraj:__ _(Still sobbing.)_ Go, go before I change my mind. Take your friend and go, he will get better, he is in good hands. He is lucky to have friends like you. Go away!_(Kids are ecstatic – Long live Yamraj! they shout loudly!)_ __Yamraj:__ _(Putting his hands on his ears)_ Noise, so much noise, I hate noise. Now I get it. India is a noisy country, so naturally these kids are also a noisy lot. Hurry up and leave or else...__Vikram:__ _(Goes and hugs Yamraj)_ Thank you Yamraj! Thank you very much. You are not so bad after all _(Yamraj is too shocked even to react)___Rakesh:__ Come, lets go. Now he knows he can't mess with us!__Vikram:__ Forget it, friends! Remember, all's well that ends well. _(They depart as noisily as when they had arrived. Yamraj is too stunned to react. Yamdoot is relieved. He is drinking water and is about to leave when Yamraj catches him.)___Yamraj:__ Where are you going? Can't you do anything correctly? You messed up, so now you have to work overtime and go back to India and...__Yamdoot:__ Oh no! Not there again! _(Tries to run and gets caught. He is beaten.)___Yamraj:__ You will go to India and you will not be paid for extra work done. Understood?__Yamdoot:__ Yes, Maharaj. I will do as you say. Just don't hit me anymore. Look at my cheeks. _(Looks in a mirror)_ Red as an apple!

There was a time when all the animals lived together as friends.One day they decided to have a meeting to elect a king. Rooster wanted to be king. So he lied to the other animals.He told them, "The red comb on my head is fire! Don't touch the comb on my head!" The other animals believed Rooster. They decided to elect Rooster as their king.The animals hoped that Rooster's fire would help them in cold weather. Then came a day when it rained. And rained. And rained. It was cold. Everything was wet and cold. "Where can we get fire to warm our bodies?"Rabbit asked the other animals. "We can get fire from the comb on Rooster's head," replied Monkey."Rooster is our king because he has fire on his head," said Monkey. The animals agreed with Monkey. They sent Fox to collect fire from king Rooster. Fox found Rooster in a deep sleep. So he decided to take fire without asking Rooster. Fox collected some dry grass. He put the grass next to the comb on Rooster's head. Nothing happened. The grass did not catch fire. "Wake up king Rooster!" yelled Fox. "We need fire now." But Rooster could not give fire to Fox. Fox was angry. He went back to the other animals. He told them the truth about the comb on Rooster's head.From that day, no one was afraid of Rooster.And foxes eat roosters and their families.

Little Anu had a concentration problem. Whenever she tried to concentrate, something distracted her. So she was not able to study properly and started getting less marks in school. One day when her teacher was announcing an English test for the next day, Anu was distracted as usual and failed to listen. Next day in the test, half her answers were wrong and she got very poor marks. The teacher was very angry with Anu and promptly wrote a note in her diary for her parents to sign. Anu was terrified how her parents would react to not only her poor marks in English, but to the note in her diary. Thinking about the evening ahead depressed her. She knew mamma and pappa would be upset with her. Anu reached home and was about to knock when she saw her mother returning from office. “How was your day?” she asked, giving Anu a hug. Little yo came running and gave her a tight hug and said “Hi didi! I missed you.” Anu's exhaustion melted away and she felt happy that she had a loving family with her. Anu knew at the end of the day, a loving family should find everything forgivable and her parents will do the same. She made a resolution that from now on, she will concentrate and pay attention in class. Listen carefully to her teacher and get good marks. As Anu expected her parents forgave her and told her to forget the present situation and strive instead to get good marks next time The day ended with the four of them having a good time. Being a family means you are a part of something very wonderful. It means you will love and be loved for the rest of your life.

Chottu is 3 feet tall. His legs look like broomsticks. He wears green-rimmed spectacles, cracks jokes and makes everyone laugh. One day he was selected as the goalkeeper of the Manchester United junior team. He was the best in goalkeeping so he was certain to be a part of the team. He caught the ball, pounced on it and slammed it on the ground. The opposite team striker groaned, “How did I miss it?” Chottu was over the moon! When Chottu went home, he saw his mother making rotis in the kitchen. His father was coming back home from office. His grandmother was knitting on the chair. . “Listen, everyone, come here! Come here!” he shouted excitedly. “What happened?” “Why are you shouting?” his mother asked angrily. "I won the football game!” he said excitedly.“I don't believe it!” his grandmother replied delightedly.“That's excellent!” replied his father.“That's brilliant!” smiled his mother. His father gave him a tight hug. Chottu's father promised to buy him a remote control helicopter as a present for winning the football match. Chottu felt joyful. When Chottu returned to school the next day, his friends started teasing him, “Chottu – the chotta boy,” Charlie taunted. The football team he played against him were standing in the corridor and gossiping about Chottu. Chottu got very annoyed. He attacked Charlie Tombstone style. He watched WWE and he was a fan of Undertaker and Kane. Charlie's neck twisted and was thrown back on the ground. Charlie's head started throbbing in pain. Seeing him on the ground, he fled. Chottu was very depressed. He went home and asked his mother, “Why can't you give me Complan every day?”“It's very expensive,” she replied.“I want to increase my height, please give me Complan!” he pleaded. Chottu felt blue.“Okay, we will buy Complan, but on one condition.” “I will do anything!”“I should not hear any complains about you from school.” Chottu agreed. He started skipping every day to become tall. Gradually, Chottu‘s height increased. Children at school gasped. They couldn't believe how tall he had grown. So everyone finally stopped teasing Chottu.

Sakima lived with his parents and his four year old sister.They lived on a rich man's land.Their grass-thatched hut was at the end of a row of trees. When Sakima was three years old, he fell sick and lost his sight.Sakima was a talented boy. Sakima did many things that other six year old boys did not do.For example, he could sit with older members of the village and discuss important matters. The parents of Sakima worked at the rich man's house.They left home early in the morning and returned late in the evening.Sakima was left with his little sister. Sakima loved to sing songs.One day his mother asked him, "Where do you learn these songs from, Sakima?" Sakima answered, "They just come, mother. I hear them in my head and then I sing." Sakima liked to sing for his little sister, especially, if she felt hungry.His sister would listen to him singing his favourite song.She would sway to the soothing tune. "Can you sing it again and again, Sakima," his sister would beg him.Sakima would accept and sing it over and over again. One evening when his parents returned home, they were very quiet.Sakima knew that there was something wrong. "What is wrong, mother, father?" Sakima asked.Sakima learned that the rich man's son was missing.The man was very sad and lonely. "I can sing for him. He might be happy again," Sakima told his parents.But his parents dismissed him."He is very rich. You are only a blind boy. Do you think your song will help him?" However, Sakima did not give up.His little sister supported him.She said, "Sakima's songs soothe me when I am hungry. They will soothe the rich man too." The following day, Sakima asked his little sister to lead him to the rich man's house. He stood below one big window and began to sing his favourite song.Slowly, the head of the rich man began to show through the big window. The workers stopped what they were doing. They listened to Sakima's beautiful song.But one man said, "Nobody has been able to console the boss. Does this blind boy think he will console him?" Sakima finished singing his song and turned to leave.But the rich man rushed out and said, "Please sing again." At that very moment, two men came carrying someone on a stretcher.They had found the rich man's son beaten up and left on the side of the road. The rich man was so happy to see his son again.He rewarded Sakima for consoling him.He took his son and Sakima to hospital so Sakima could regain his sight.

Once upon a time there was a king who had a close friend that he grew with. The friend had a habit to face each situation that happened in his life (positive or negative) saying, “Everything happens for the good”.One day, the king and his friend left for hunting. Bows & Arrows were the most famous weapons during that time and were used for hunting and fighting. While preparing the weapons for the king, the friend, made some mistake and the king shot and it took his thumb away. The king answered, "No, this is not good", and he promptly commanded the soldiers who arrested his friend and put him in the prison.More than a year passed by, the king was hunting in a region where, cannibals appeared, captured the king and took him to their village. When they were about to tie up his hands, they noticed that the king did not have a thumb. As they were superstitious, they disliked people who had a part of their body missing. Thus, after setting the king free, they banished him from the village. The King realized he had escaped from the cannibals because of his friend and when he arrived at the palace, he paid a visit to the prison to speak with his friend. "You were right", said the king. "It was good that I lost my thumb".The King told his friend everything that happened to him. "I am sorry that I have ordered you to prison for such a long period. It was a great mistake". "No", the friend said, "That was the good decision.” What do you mean by that? How it can be good decision? I ordered my best friend to prison?" The friend answered; if I was not in the prison certainly I would be with you in the hunt". Then you know what would have happened with me?

I enjoy skipping with my friend. I enjoy writing letters on the board. I enjoy reading books with pictures. I enjoy eating different fruit. I enjoy helping at home. I enjoy listening to my mother's stories. I enjoy sleeping on a big bed. I enjoy doing these things. What do you enjoy doing?

Once upon a time, there lived aking called Opale with his beautifulqueen.They had only one beautifuldaughter. One day, a king looked at hisprincess and said to his wife, "Ithink our daughter is grown up now,we must find her a handsome manfrom the village." "Who will marry my beautifulprincess?, a king asked himself.He thought of a test for all men whowill come expecting to marry hisdaughter."I am going to cook a pot fullof water and any man who will drinkthis hot water will marry my lovelydaughter." said the king. The following day the king put up an announcementinviting all unmarried men in the village.Announcement!!! Announcement!!!To all young and unmarried men in the village,a kingwants to find a handsome man for his beautifuldaughter.Come, Come, Come all. On hearing the announcement,all young men werevery excited and every body got set for the day. One of the young men told hisfather,I have had that the king hasinvited all young men to hispalace,he wants to choose ahusband for his daughter.Father,"I must go and stand beforethe king,am very sure I will comeback with the princess." As usual,it was a proposed day,aqueue of young and smartlydressed men was seen movingtowards the palace.Every body was very happy. "You are all most welcome"said theking.Then the king began to address thecrowd of young men,If any onedrinks a pot of hot water all atonce,he will be able to my lovelyprincess with him. They were very many in that theinterview could not be completewithin a day.Most men tried their level best butthey could not go with the princess. On the following day,there camemr. Hare who had heard theannouncement late.He was welcomed and given a seat. The king told him,to take mydaughter,one has got to drink a potof hot water all at once.That is nothing to me,my lord,saidmr Hare. Mr. Hare was a very wise and trickyman,he started a very interestingstory that took up the king'sattention while the water wascooling. The chiefs and the king were veryhappy saying, "This is the man wewanted."In a few minutes,the hot water hadcooled and mr. Hare drank it all atonce. The king and his chiefs were verysurprised to see mr. Hare drinkingthe hot water. Finally mr. Hare took the beautifulprincess with him and he was veryhappy but the king remained verysad because his daughter had gonewith an animal.

Lalu the owl was a friendly fellow. All the birds in the jungle were his friends. But Lalu's best friend in the jungle was Sweety, the peacock. One day Lalu organised a party and called all his friends. In the party, all the birds danced and gifted Lalu with a crown of feathers. Lalu slept happily that night.

"Mom," calls Lebo."Come and look. These clothes are all too small for me!""Let me see," says Mom. "Look at my skirt. It's too small," says Lebo."Yes, it is," says Mom."Nomsa can have your skirt." "Look at my jeans. They're too small," says Lebo."Yes, they are," says Mom."Nomsa can have your jeans." "Look at my T-shirt. It's too small," says Lebo."Yes, it is," says Mom."Nomsa can have your T-shirt." "Look at my jersey. It's too small," says Lebo."Yes, it is," says Mom."Nomsa can have your jersey." "Look at my raincoat. It's too small," says Lebo."Yes, it is," says Mom."Nomsa can have your raincoat." "Look at my socks. They're too small," says Lebo."Yes, they are," says Mom."Nomsa can have your socks." "Look at my takkies. They're too small," says Lebo."Yes, they are," says Mom."Nomsa can have your takkies." "Now you have lots of clothes," says Lebo."Oh no I don't," says Nomsa,"These clothes are all too big for me!"

Aditi and Aarav love pooris.Halwa- poori, kheer-poori and shreekhand– poori. Yummy! Chhole-poori or aaloo-poori.finger-licking good!Pooris are tasty, whatever you may eat them with! The smell of pooris frying! Oh, so wonderful. The sight of pooris swimming in hot oil! One look at golden, crispy, hot, puffed pooris and Aditi and Aarav rush to get the roundest and the most puffed ones.But how does the poori puff?Is there air inside? Who fills the poori with air?Aditi and Aarav blow air into balloons, to make them puff up. Pa uses a pump to fill air in the tyre of his bicycle. But Ma doesn't seem to use any of these methods to puff the poori.She just fries them and they puff. Amazing!Aditi and Aarav decide to observe, ask questions and find answersthe next time pooris are made at home. Pa has put some whole-wheat flour in a big dish. He adds a little oil and some salt and starts mixing water into the flour.How come the flour is absorbing the water readily?Well, the reason is, something in the wheat flour is very thirsty! When you are thirsty what do you do? You drink water.Gliadin and Glutenin are the two types of proteins in the wheat. Proteins and all other chemical substances are made up of tiny units called molecules. The molecules in these proteins are very thirsty.As soon as water is put in the flour, these molecules drink it. Then they become big and fat. They expand. Naturally, they don't have enough space to sit comfortably. So they touch and push each other. They actually stick to each other. Sometimes, you hold each other's hand and make a chain while playing.The whole chain then moves about. Similarly, these molecules stick together and form a network. Pa has made dough out of the flour. He asks Ma to knead the dough some more. She smears some oil on her palm and starts kneading. You need strong hands to knead the dough. She says if the dough is notkneaded the pooris won't puff.How are these two related?Here is the secret.When you knead the dough, the molecules that are stuck to each other, Now start stretching. When this stretching is complete, a new protein is formed. It is called Gluten. Gluten is elastic like a rubber band and so we can give any shape to that dough.Ma has left the dough aside for some time. She is now preparing the kheer. Aditi and Aarav decide to come back when she starts rolling the pooris. Now Ma and Pa are ready. Ma has poured oil in the frying pan and has put it on the stove. She pinches off a small amount of dough, and rollsit into a poori. Pa slides the poori into the hot oil. In minutes, the poori has puffed. How did that happen? Here is what happens to the poori. The rolling is possible due to the Gluten in the dough. When the small piece of dough is rolled, a Gluten sheet is formed in the poori.When the poori is put in the hot oil, its lower surface becomes very hot due to the oil.Do you remember that water was used for making the dough? So, due to the high temperature, the water in the poori turns into steam. This steam is very powerful and it lifts up the sheet of Gluten. And that is why the poori puffs.Pa now turns the poori so that the other surface also turns golden. He has taken the poori out of the pan and kept it in a dish. Now with the help of a fork let us make a hole in a poori.See the steam oozing out? So the puffed poori doesn't contain air. It has steam in it, right? Why are the pooris used for bhel-poori, aloo–dahi-poori not puffed?There could be three reasons:If the poori is rolled very thin, there is not sufficient water in it for steam to form and for the pressure to build up so that the poori can puff.Sometimes after the pooris are rolled, thin holes are made in them with a fork so that while frying, whatever steam is created, it comes out of the holes and does not let the poori puff. Such flat pooris can be used for longer.Also if pooris are fried at low temperatures, steam forms very slowly, pressure does not build up and the poori does not puff.Now you know why some pooris puff up, and why some pooris don't! Experiment to get gluten from wheat flourMake dough using wheat flour and water. Use only adequate amount of water so that the dough would not be too hard or too soft.Use the lower portion of the palm and knead the dough for few minutes. If necessary, little oil can be used so that the dough does not stick to your palm. Leave the dough covered for about ten minutes.Now take a big bowl and put the dough in it after kneading it for few minutes again.Pour water on the dough in the bowl so that it is completely immersed in water. Continue kneading the dough in water till the water becomes white. Throw the water out and put fresh water in the bowl.Repeat the procedure till you observe that a small portion of the dough now remains which when kneaded water does not turn white.This means all the starch from the dough is removed and only gluten has remained. This is because starch dissolves in water but gluten does not.Take out the small portion of the dough which is gluten. You can stretch it like a rubber band. If you stretch it and leave it comes back to original state. This demonstrates the elasticity in it. You can spread it horizontally. This demonstrates the plasticity in it. Poori facts from historyAccording to scientists, wild wheat originated first in middle east countries about 11,000 years ago.According to the world's first encyclopedia‘Abhilashitarth chintamani' or Manasollaswritten in 12th century by King Someshwar,something similar to poori was made at that time but was called as pahalika. So poori is at least 800 years old.Excavation done near Damaskas in Syria revealed wheat dated back 9000 years. Tools necessary for planting and harvesting wheat plants and also for grinding wheat were found at the same sight. CAN YOU FIND OUT?Can pooris be made from jowar, bajra or rice flour? Why?Apart from pooris, what are the other things we make using wheat flour?What happens if you put too much water in the flour?What happens when you use other methods of cooking flour such as in a tandoor or on a tawa?

"Hello there!" said the bear. As glad as the cactus was to see the bear, it was starting to rain and there was a very important task she had to get done. The light was starting to flicker. She had a rope ladder to make her way up to her ledge, but not one that could reach the ceiling lamp.Now, this was no problem for the bear at all. She was tall enough to reach it, and she was great at fixing lamps. The cactus handed the bear a spare bulb. "There you go," said the bear. "You're the best!" said the cactus with a great big grin.

This is my teacher.Her name is Teacher Mulongo.She loves me a lot. Teacher Mulongo teaches us thealphabet and the vowels.I can say the letters a, e, i, o, u. she has taught us the coloursred, blue, green, yellow andorange. During nap time TeacherMulongo sings us to sleep.She sings a lullaby to us. The lullaby goes like this:Jonnie ,Jonnieyes Mamaeating sugar?No Mama,open your mouthhaaha...haaha. Teacher Mulongo knows many stories.She tells us a different story each day of the week. On Monday, she tells us storiesabout great men. On Tuesday, she tells us storiesabout great women. On Wednesday, she tells usstories about special days. On Thursday, she tells usstories about our environment. And on Friday, Teacher Mulongoasks us to tell our own stories tothe class. Our teacher is the best teacherin the world!When I grow up, I want to be ateacher.

On a usual sunny day, Balloo the Rabbit came to meet his friend, Appu the elephant. As always, the two friends were quite excited to meet one another. Appu and Ballu discussed their days, but Ballu had an interesting experience the day before that he wanted to share! It was this beautiful kite that he saw, stuck on a tree but then all there for the taking. It would only require Ballu to climb the tree and untangle the kite. But then a bird had untangled the kite and off it went with the wind... Ballu noticed that all the other animals were excited to see the kite too and wanted to get hold of it too, which brought about an awful lot of panic! All the animals wanted this beautiful kite to play with. But after much struggle, Ballu managed to correctly guess where the kite would fall - within arms reach, and then... Ballu fell down with the kite, damaging it and almost injuring himself! Ballu looked at his beautiful kite that now lay damaged and probably would never fly again. He felt terrible about it! But Ballu's mother came out rushing - telling Ballu not to worry! She would fix Ballus kite for him so that he can play with it. Appu listened keenly! He was very happy that his friend was not hurt and that Ballu's mother came to help him. Then Ballu told Appu that he wanted to gift the beautiful kite to him as he knew that Appu had never seen a kite. Appu, though, could not contain his excitement and suddenly felt the need to run around. It was the last time Ballu had seen Appu...

I am singing. She is waving. I am clapping. She is stretching. He is calling. I am answering. She is listening. I am jumping... I am screaming... I am travelling by Taxi...

There was a GIANT dragon DRIGO. He wanted to fly in the whole solar system.... So he went on a cliff, took the stance and whoosh!!! he was off to explore..... Drigo was very excited to see all the planets around him so closely. He saw a silver planet (which is moon) besides the blue and green planet (of course earth)."Oh!!! what a round bulgy planet with a silver paint." he exclaimed.He landed there with a big thud.While he started staring at planet, a Spacecraft came and landed over the planet and stared at Drigo. Some red colored creatures came out of it.... Drigo picked it up and thought it would be tasty and he mixed the chillies with the rice cake and ate.............he was soooo hungry....But the chillies were actually aliens from outer space. See, what is happening inside stomach when he ate the rice cakes with the alien chillies..... The chillies went in his mouth and it got so frightened that they used their power and made red pepper chilly....... Drigo started spiting fire everywhere.(hmmm...now I know why dragons spit fires)..... He cried" I waaant waaaterrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr!!!!!".....He thought of the green and blue painted planet...... Drigo found water on planet, he drank half of the water of pond...... He suddenly heard some noise.....there was another dragon eating mangoes... Drigo was so happy as he thought that he has discovered life on the planet......he went back in space searching for HIS planet(he did not know that it was his planet!!!).But he lost in space.... Now his whole life is spent in search of HIS planet.........

Yellow butterfly on thesand. Yellow plastic drum inthe house. Yellow horse in thestreet. Yellow truck in the city. Yellow bowl on theground. Yellow flowers in abucket. Yellow trolley in thelane. Yellow slide in the park. Yellow house on thecorner. Yellow Africa on myhead. And where do we alllive?In Africa.

It was a very hot Saturday afternoon in December. "Bontle and Mpho and Lerato, go out and play!" Mme said to us. "I don't want you under my feet." We ran out of the house. "Let's go to the river," Lerato said. "It's cooler there." "But Mme told us not to swim in the river," said Bontle. "We won't swim," answered Lerato. "We'll just play in the shade next to the water." But playing libeke is hot work, even when you're under the trees next to the river. First we took off our shoes. But we were still hot. Then we took off our shirts and skirts. But we were still hot. We put our feet in the river to cool off. Then we splashed each other. Soon we were soaked with water. "Oh come on! Let's swim," said Mpho. "Mme will never know." We swam and swam and forgot about the time. The sun started to go down, and the day began to cool. Where were our clothes? We looked under the trees. We looked on the bushes. We looked everywhere. There were some cows near the river, enjoying the sweet grass. Bontle looked up, "Look at that cow! What's in her mouth?" "She's eating a red flower," said Lerato. "It's not a red flower," shouted Mpho. "It's your shirt!" We looked at another cow who was chewing something blue. "That's my skirt!" shouted Bontle. We went home in our panties, shivering. But not only because it was cool. "It was the cows," we cried. "The cows ate our clothes." But did Mme believe us? Soon our bottoms were very warm. And it wasn't from the sun.

Once there was a highly skilled and successful carpenter who wanted to retire as he had grown old. He told his employer of his plans to leave the house building business and live a more leisurely life with his family. The employer was sorry to see his good worker retire and asked if he could build just one more house as a personal favor. The carpenter agreed to do just this one last job for the sake of his employer. As he was in the mood of retiring, the carpenter did not have much interest in his work. He resorted to poor workmanship, and used inferior materials. So the end result was not as good as his previous ones. When the job was done, the carpenter called his employer and showed him the house. The employer handed over some papers and the front door key to the carpenter and said "This is your house, my gift to you."The carpenter was in a shock! If he had only known that he was building his own house, he would have made it better than any other house that he ever built!When you give something your twenty percent, you finish a chore. When you give it your fifty percent, you finish a task. But when you give it your hundred percent, you do a good job. Any job well done is a one-time investment which will reap rewards for the rest of your life.

Chhoti used to love being outdoors. Everyday she would walk through the fields talking and singing to the crops and birds. One day she entered the forest. In the forest she could hear a lot of birds chirping and also some animal sounds. As Chhoti walked through the forest, she saw a huge footprint on the ground. It was so big that both her feet could fit into the print and there was still some extra space. For a brief moment she got really scared! She wondered which animal could be so big and huge. She started thinking about dark and scary things. Then all of a sudden, in the distance, Chhoti saw Bade- the elephant. He was really big. This footprint was surely his. Bade walked up to Chhoti and nudged her with his trunk to say Hello. Chhoti had never seen such kind eyes before Bade lifted Chhoti on to his back and they went for a long walk through the forest. From that day onwards each day Chhoti would sit on Bade's back and they would discover the forest together.

The root grows first. It grows down into thesoil. Then the stem grows. Itgrows up towards thesun. The first leaves comeout. The bean plant growstall. Then the flowers comeout. The flowers turninto beans. There are lots of seedsin the bean.

The small bus stop in my village was busy with people and overloaded buses. On the ground were even more things to load. Touts were shouting the names where their buses were going. "City! City! Going west!" I heard a tout shouting. That was the bus I needed to catch. The city bus was almost full, but more people were still pushing to get on. Some packed their luggage under the bus. Others put theirs on the racks inside. New passengers clutched their tickets as they looked for somewhere to sit in the crowded bus. Women with young children made them comfortable for the long journey. I squeezed in next to a window. The person sitting next to me was holding tightly to a green plastic bag. He wore old sandals, a worn out coat, and he looked nervous. I looked outside the bus and realised that I was leaving my village, the place where I had grown up. I was going to the big city. The loading was completed and all passengers were seated. Hawkers still pushed their way into the bus to sell their goods to the passengers. Everyone was shouting the names of what was available for sale. The words sounded funny to me. A few passengers bought drinks, others bought small snacks and began to chew. Those who did not have any money, like me, just watched. These activities were interrupted by the hooting of the bus, a sign that we were ready to leave. The tout yelled at the hawkers to get out. Hawkers pushed each other to make their way out of the bus. Some gave back change to the travellers. Others made last minute attempts to sell more items. As the bus left the bus stop, I stared out of the window. I wondered if I would ever go back to my village again. As the journey progressed, the inside of the bus got very hot. I closed my eyes hoping to sleep. But my mind drifted back home. Will my mother be safe? Will my rabbits fetch any money? Will my brother remember to water my tree seedlings? On the way, I memorised the name of the place where my uncle lived in the big city. I was still mumbling it when I fell asleep. Nine hours later, I woke up with loud banging and calling for passengers going back to my village. I grabbed my small bag and jumped out of the bus. The return bus was filling up quickly. Soon it would make its way back east. The most important thing for me now, was to start looking for my uncle's house.

Fireflies are small winged insects that glow in the dark but why do they shine and what creates this spark within them?They're bright and twinkling like little stars! I wish I could have glowed like them but I can't! Can anyone tell me why? Imagine a dark, moonless night when you have gone camping with your classmates and you lose your way. What would you do? Will you not try contacting your friends by flashing your torchlight? Well, fireflies or ‘lightning bugs' as they are sometimes called do the same, except that they have an unlimited supply of light within themselves! That is why fireflies never worry about fused light bulbs or electricity tariffs. They seem immensely happy just flying around and glowing- this is their signal to say, “Hey, look! I'm here!” The glow of the firefly is produced by a protein called luciferase and a pigment called luciferin. Proteins are special food used by our bodies to create muscles, bones and skin while pigments are natural colouring substances found in plants and animals. When these two meet inside the tiny belly of the firefly, they react with the oxygen already found in there. A celebration takes place, a soft firework display, so to say and bright light is produced which is the ‘glow' of the firefly!Fireflies therefore are bio-luminescent but they are not the only ones. Different types of fish and marine creatures in the sea also produce their own lights! The glow of the firefly functions like a light switch and is periodically turned on and off by the insect. It does this by sending a special ‘message' from its brain to the ‘light organ' inside its body that is its abdomen and soon the chemical reaction begins and the glow is produced! The grown up fireflies use their ‘glow' to call out to their mates. In fact, female fireflies prefer ‘flashy males' that can blink the longest or at a faster pace.Once they see this special glow, the females respond to it by switching on their own lights. The firefly-mates soon meet and baby fireflies get created! The younger fireflies or the larvae, unlike their parents, use their glow mainly to chase predators away. The chemicals within their bodies are toxic and have a horrible taste so creatures that come to feast on them get put off and go hunting elsewhere for tastier munchies! Fireflies are never actually alone! There are more than 2,000 species of fireflies on this earth. During springtime, especially on dark nights, you may spot a few of them flitting around brightly!Fireflies maybe tiny, smaller than your fingers perhaps, but grouped together, these glowing insects can light up an entire garden and all for free!Sounds incredible, doesn't it? Amazing facts about fireflies1. Fireflies are not flies but beetles! They are often called ‘lightning bugs' but they aren't bugs either.2. Different species of fireflies glow in different colors that range from yellow to green. Fireflies that flit around in the dark emit a greenish glow while those found outdoors during twilight give out a yellowish light. 3. There are a few non-vegetarian fireflies that feed on mites and other fireflies!4. Adult fireflies aren't the only ones that glow, their eggs and larvae glow as well! If you tap a firefly's egg, it flashes in response to your touch.5. Fireflies live in all continents except Antarctica. They love tropical climate but also thrive in temperate zones. They flit around forests, meadows and gardens during summer everywhere except in Antarctica that is much too cold for them. Do It Yourself1. Find out what else glows in the dark. Both, living and non-living.2. While playing in a group, imagine yourselves as fireflies. Carry a small torch in your hand and make different formations like fireflies. 3. Make a firefly with trash.For example, with a plastic bottle and glow stick.You can also try your own special ideas.

In the past, rat and frogwere friends. They lived on the samevillage Rat was a farmer of maize , Frogwas not interested in that job.At rat's home food was alwaysthere His children never knewwhat famine is Hischildren never gothungry At frogs home, therewas always famine Thiscaused frog to alwaysbeg maize from Mr. Rat It never pleased Mr. Ratto feed frogs family Mr.Rat got a good wisdomthat the agriculturedepartment passed alaw. Only maize grain shouldbe eaten not flour. Thisbecame very hard forthe frog From that time to nowfrog cannot eat maizegrain.

Varun is going on his summer holidays to Hubli. Varun likes to travel. Varun likes to eat icecreams. But what he loves the most is reading. And what he reads he dreams, and what he dreams becomes true. Suddenly he hears a loud roar. He peeps out of the window and yelps! He sees a dragon racing with his car. The dragon puffs out big grey clouds of smoke. As time passes Varun dozes off to sleep. He is woken up by a flash of light on his face. He opens his eyes and is astonished! It is dark and all that he sees is a tall dragon spitting fire on the ships in the sea. Continuing his journey, Varun enjoyed the sight of the rising sun. Suddenly he noticed a signboard pointing to Dragon-bridge. As the car continued its ride Varun suddenly found himself zooming over a dragon shaped bridge. As Varun was dreaming of a dragon in the form of a train, a lighthouse and a bridge. Now, what do you think, he heard? The flapping of huge wings and a big roar. He was out of his dream, seeing the real red eyes of a green huge dragon spitting fire.The real one!

Once upon a time there was afemale giant.As she was walking near the lakeone day, she found three little girls.She asked them, "Who among youis loved by both parents?" One of the girls said, "My motherloves me most."Another said, "My father loves memost."But the third one said, "I am lovedby both parents." The giant then asked the girl lovedby both parents to help her put aload of firewood on her back.So the girl followed the giant. After going for some distance, thegirl asked the giant, "Where is yourfirewood?"The giant replied, "It is near thosetrees over there!" When they reached the trees, thegirl asked again, "Where is yourfirewood?"The giant answered, "Not far now!" They walked on and met a man.He asked the giant, "What is thename of your child?"The giant replied, "She is called the'talking bag'." The girl burst out singing:"I am not called the talking bag.My name is Kaamungei!Oh! My mother, whom I love,Oh! My father, whom I love,Oh! My calabash, which I use todrink milk!" When the man heard what the girlsang, he rescued her and took herback to her parents.The story ends there!

One elephant is going to drink water. Two giraffes are going to drink water. Three buffaloes and four birds are also going to drink water. Five impalas and six warthogs are walking to the water. Seven zebras are running to the water. Eight frogs and nine fish are swimming in the water. One lion roars. He also wants to drink. Who is afraid of the lion? One elephant is drinking water with the lion.

On a red Planet far far awayOur little blue Alien lost his wayWith four legs and three little fingers in his handAll he was left with, was a Magic Wand And with his magic wand, however hard he triedTo make his new red planet full of colors green, blue or even whiteAll that he could do was create only stars, although brightBut with flowers and trees in his mind, he felt nothing was going right Alone and exhausted, he became so sadTo find a way out, he scratched his headSuddenly, there crossed our Astronaut in his speedy JetAnd he saw our little blue Alien sitting alone in a planet so red And the astronaut stopped byTo say a little "Hi"To our little blue AlienWho was excited to finally see a companion Our little blue alien told the AstronautThat how he is stuck alone and lost"Please take me alongTo the place you belongI hear the Earth is a colorful placeWhere there are trees and grass and flowers to embrace" The Astronaut happily agreed to take our Little Blue Alien to Earth, the beautiful planetAnd excited, together they boarded the speedy JetThrough the stars and the moon and the cloudHustled back the Jet to the Earth making sounds so loud Our little blue Alien smiled and danced seeing the colorful sightThe flowers, the trees everything so beautiful and brightAnd he had also made a wonderful friendHappy he was, that everything was good in the end.

Thaimi lived in the village ofOmbalantu. One day she went withher brother, Angula, to fetch water.While Thaimi was filling her potAngula saw a hare. He ran after it.He ran and ran and ran but the harewas too quick for him. Thaimi's pot was full and she wasready to go home. She lookedaround but she could not seeAngula. She walked and she walkedand she walked, looking for him. Atlast she found him lying in the grassbehind a large anthill. As she came closer Angula held his finger to his lips. Close by a group of strange men wereresting. The men had bows and arrows ... and spears!"Angula," Thaimi whispered. "Those men are raiders. They have come to steal our cattleand burn our village. Come quickly. We must run home and warn the village." So veryquietly and quickly Thaimi and Angula ran towards their village. Near their village they met theiruncle. He was taking his cow to thewater. Thaimi called out, "Run,uncle, run! Men are coming to stealour cattle and burn our village."The man shouted at his cow andmade her run towards the village. Further on Thaimi saw her auntworking in the field and she calledout, "Run, aunt, run! Men arecoming to steal our cattle and burnour village!"The woman took her hoe, picked upher sleeping baby and ran towardsthe village. Further on Thaimi saw hergrandfather. He was limping alongthe road beside a donkey loadedwith grain.And she called out, "Run,grandfather, run! Men are comingto steal our cattle and burn ourvillage!"Her grandfather lifted his stick andchased the donkey until it rantowards the village. When Thaimi and her brotherreached the village she called out toeveryone, "Run, run. Men arecoming to steal our cattle and burnour village!"The villagers were scared but theydid not know where to hide or whatto do.Where could they hide their cattle?Where could they hide their grain?Where could they hide themselves? Thaimi was very frightened but thenshe remembered the place whereshe and Angula sometimes went toplay.A safe place.A secret place. She picked up a drum and began tohit it as hard as she could.Bam Bam Bam Boom Boom BoomAll the villagers stopped.Thaimi called out, "I have a place tohide. Follow me."She took Angula by the arm. Thaimi and Angula led the way to abaobab tree which stood nearby."Why have you brought us here? Wecannot hide here," they said.Thaimi said to her father, "Come. I'llshow you." They climbed into asmall opening at the top of the tree.Thaimi and her father slid down intothe big trunk. It was huge andhollow. Thaimi and her father cut anopening in the side of the tree. Allthe villagers made their waythrough the opening into the greathollow inside the baobab tree.Some villagers collected the grainand the pots.Others collected the goats, thesheep and the cattle. And thestrange thing was that there wasroom for everyone. The sun went down.The raiders crept up towards thevillage. It was dark.Inside the great tree the villagerswaited.They were cold. They were hungry.And they were afraid.What was going to happen? Then Thaimi said, "It's cold. Let'smake a fire."She took two stones and struckthem together. The sparks caughtthe grass and small flames flared.Soon a bright warm fire wasburning. Light flamed from the tree. Fieryeyes shone from the trunk. Brighttongues licked the branches. Smokecurled into the sky. Outside the raiders saw the tree."It's a great spirit!" they cried in fear.First one raider turned and ran.Then another turned and ran.Then another and another.Until they had all run away.The people of the village of Ombalantu were saved. What do you think?Was it Thaimi or the tree that savedthem all at Ombalantu?

Once upon a time, there was aspider called Anansi.He was too lazy to cook his ownfood. Instead, he used to visit hisfriends and eat the delicious foodthey had cooked. One day, he was walking pastRabbit's house when he smelledsomething cooking."Greens!" he said excitedly."They're not quite ready yet," saidRabbit. "You can help me with thewashing up in the mean time.""Sorry, I have things to do. I'll comeback later," said Anansi. "How will I call you when they'reready?" asked Rabbit.Anansi thought for a minute."I'll spin a web," he said, "and tieone end around my leg and one endto your pot. When the greens areready, pull on the web string and I'llcome right away."So Anansi tied the web to the pot,and walked on. A short while later he saw Monkeyand his wife, cooking some beans ina large pot."Come and join us!" they said. "Thebeans are nearly ready.""Sorry, I have things to do," saidAnansi before they could ask him tohelp."But let me tie one end of this webaround my leg and one end to yourpot. When the beans are ready, pullon the web string, and I'll come." He walked on until he smelledsweet potatoes."Anansi," called his friend Warthog."My pot is full of sweet potatoesand honey! Come and share myfood with me. Here's a fork for youto help me stir.""I'll come back later," said Anansiquickly. "But let me tie one end ofthis web around my leg and oneend to your pot. When the sweetpotatoes are ready, pull on the webstring, and I'll come." By the time Anansi arrived at theriver, each of his eight legs was tiedto a different pot of delicious food.Just then, Anansi felt a tug on oneof his legs."Rabbit's food is ready!" he said,licking his lips. He felt a second tug.And a third.And a fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh,eighth...Everyone was pulling on the webstrings at the same time!"Stop! Stop!" he cried in pain, ashis legs were stretched thinner andthinner.But no one could hear him. Finally, the web strings could holdno longer. They snapped one byone.Anansi rolled into the river tosoothe his painful legs. But his legswould not return to their normalshape.And he was too embarrassed to goto any of his friends and share theirfood that day.

I heard a noise from the kitchen so I went there and saw all plates fallen down and mom at the corner frightened she was shivering she told nothing It was Holi and I went out to celebrate but eyery one ran away from me and I saw my height decreased. I was in house then and wonder what happened. My mom kicked me out of house!!!!!!!!!!!!!!???????? Then I saw myself in the mirror and got shocked!! I had turned into an alien blue colour!! I wanted to know to know what happened. So I recollected and thought what happened to mom. Why was she frightened. Too many questions but less time. Then I got a idea. That I will go in space and search with my friend.### 2 months laterAt last I made a rocket and took my friend and flew. We at last came on planet Mars and were happy we started finding and my friend (Rot) and me (Ron) started finding the reason. Rot called me and told there is a wand here then I picked it up. Then I picked it up and it shined and and did not see Rot then I saw my friend I the rocket and going!!!!!!!!!!!!! How should I go home I said. The wand shined again and a bright light came and closed my eyes and when I opened my eyes I saw a garden looking same as my. Was I home I thought. I saw a boy. I then hid my self he looked like Rot and saw my rocket near him, I waited for him to go till then it was night.Then I went near a house I saw myself sleeping a noise came and I hid myself and saw a flying cap moving near him he was then on his head and his head turned blue then I thought that because of him I turned and he will cure me so I took of the cap and I wore it and went out and my height increased hair came on my body my body structure changed and I became human again then I went in the rocket and back to Mars then I again saw a light and I saw me playing holi I was cured and threw the cap and wand in dustbin and next I told the story to my teacher and all friends but no one belived except Rot sp h il50 cr50.

One day three boys from Muguluvillage went to hunt. They useddogs to help them. When they were moving they comeacross two guinea fowls. Theychased until they killed them. When it came to timefor going back home,they wanted to sharethe birds.One boy ranaway with the twobirds. The other two boys chased himand removed the birds from him.

EldoradoGaily bedlight,A gallent knight,In sunshine and in shadow,Had journeyed long,singing a song,In search of Eldorado.But he grew oldThis knight so boldAnd over his heart a shadowFell as he foundNo spot of groundThat looked like EldoradoAnd, as he strengthFailed him at length,He met a pilgrim shadow'Shadow', said heWhere can it be'The land of Eldorado?'

It was a beautiful day, Gagan the Giraffe was strolling across the forest, when he passed a herd of Zebras. Gagan looked at their stripes and then at the patchwork of color on his body. He thought to himself, that he was a handsome giraffe, much better looking than the zebras.The bushes were full of lush green leaves and bees were going purposefully about their tasks. Gagan stopped near a delicious looking plant and started to taste its leaves. As he was munching away he sensed something behind him. "Who's there?" he asked, turning toward the bushes. Aakar, are you and the other ants trying to frighten me?" There was no answer. Thinking it must have been his imagination, Gagan continued eating the leaves. Laabh, a lion, was watching the giraffe from behind the bushes. He was feeling hungry and his mouth drooled over thoughts of eating the giraffe. "He is rather big," Laabh whispered. "I don't think I can bring him down all by myself." Laabh ran off to the pride and asked his friend Lali to help him get the Giraffe and they can share the kill.Lali followed Laabh through the grass. They stopped and peeked out from behind the bushes. "He is huge. I don't think just two of us can bring that giraffe down. Why don't you go and get someone else. I'll stay here and keep an eye on him," Lali said. Laabh ran back to the pride. "Who's there? I know someone is in those bushes. Are you sure it's not you, Aakar?" the giraffe gulped. He was starting to get nervous.Lali had always liked giraffes. Giraffes had captured her heart with their grace, and beauty.She stepped out from behind the bushes. "Don't be afraid. I won't hurt you," she said. Gagan was terrified. "You're a lion. Lions eat giraffes. Why shouldn't I be afraid?""Laabh's gone back to the pride to get another lion. They want you for lunch," Lali said. "What? They want to eat me? Do you want to eat me too?" Gagan asked. "No. I'm full from breakfast. We've got to get you out of here before they come back. Follow me, I'll take you to a safe place" Lali said. Gagan was surprised when she ran into a cave. "We're going into a cave?" he asked." It's the only safe place for you right now. The ceiling is tall enough for you to stand comfortably. Stay here. I'm going back to the pride to tell them you're gone," Lali said and ran off, leaving the frightened giraffe alone. An hour later Lali came back. "You are safe now. They weren't happy that you had disappeared but cheered up when a deer walked by." Gagan left the cave and walked beside his new friend. "Thank you, Lali. You saved my life."" Everyone needs a friend," she said and darted across the savanna to where the other lions were. The greatest gift of life is friendship, and I have received it, thought Gagan to himself.

I love water. I enjoy playing withwater. It is raining. Rain gives us water. I enjoy playing outside. But it is raining. I enjoy playing out inthe rain. My hair is wet fromplaying in the rain.My father is fixing myhair.

Once upon a time, Lion was the strongest and mostfeared of all the animals.He would catch other animals and eat them.But one morning while he was looking for hisbreakfast, he got caught in a hunter's trap. Lion gave his loudest roar from the pain.He pulled and pulled to free himself from the trap.The trap got tighter and tighter around his leg everytime he pulled.Lion grew tired and he felt more pain in his leg.Finally, he gave up. Days went past as Lion sat baking in the sun.He was hungry and thirsty and there was nobody tosave him.He became weaker and weaker."I am going to die of hunger and thirst in this trap,"he thought to himself. One morning, Lion heard a sound coming from thenearby bushes.He listened and looked closer.He saw Warthog walking with his wife and children,talking and laughing.The Warthog family were going to the river to drinkwater and play in the mud before the sun got toohot. "Warthog! Please help me! Warthog!" cried Lion."Please set me free from this trap," pleaded Lion."Never," said Warthog."You are a cruel animal. You will eat me and myfamily for breakfast if I set you free.""I promise I will never do such a bad thing. We will befriends if you can set me free," said Lion. Warthog felt sorry for the lion."I do not like seeing you in suchpain, thirsty and dying fromhunger."So he pulled at the trap with hislong strong tusks and released Lion.Warthog saved his new friend. "Thank you very much my friend forsaving my life," said Lion. "I mustgo to my family now, good bye.""Go well my friend," said Warthog.He was happy that Lion was hisfriend. "My family will never have torun from the lion again," hethought. Lion walked away limping andweak.He was also very hungry.Then he saw Warthog's childrenplaying in the mud."Today is my lucky day," said Lionwith his mouth watering. "Hey Warthog, my new friend,"called Lion."I have been caught in the trap fordays without food. But I am tooweak to hunt.Please would you give one of yourchildren to me for breakfast?"Warthog was shocked."I saved you from the trap and nowyou want to eat my children?" "I am very sorry my friend," saidLion, "but I am starving.I might be weak for now but I amstronger than you."The lion opened his mouth andshowed his strong yellow teeth."If you do not give me one of yourchildren, I will take one for myself,"he roared. Warthog knew that he did not have the speed or thestrength of Lion.He would never be able to protect his children in afight."Al right," said Warthog."I will give you one of my children.But first I want you to show me how you were caughtin the trap.In case I have to save another lion from this trap." Lion imagined the wonderful tasteof young warthog in his mouth.He could hardly wait.Lion went back to the trap and puthis foot inside to show his friendhow he was trapped. "Ouch!" Lion roared.Warthog had closed the trap onLion's foot."Aha! I got you," said Warthog."You will stay in that trap hungryand thirsty again.See if your strong teeth and sharpclaws can help you now." "Run! Run! Run away!" Warthog'swife shouted to the children at thetop of her voice."Raise your tails when you arerunning so that your father can seeyou," she called.The babies ran as fast as they couldthrough the bushes. "Warthog please help me!" begged Lion again.He was in pain from the sharp jaws of the hunter'strap."I will do anything for you if you save me.""No way, liar! I will never believe you again," saidWarthog."I will also warn other animals not to save youbecause you are very sly." Warthog saw his children running in a row with theirmother.Their tails were lifted up for him to see them.He rushed to his family and they all escaped tosafety.To this day, Warthogs and their children always runwith their tails lifted up to see that everyone is safe.

Dark clouds gathered over the hills as Akira was leaving home on a windy day."Don't forget to get our umbrella from Gopu's shop. It looks like it's going to rain," said Akira's father. But just as Akira and Zero - her pet cat - started to walk towards the rusty old bridge, it began to rain... ... FISH!An endless stream of fish was falling from the sky.Thin fish, fat fish, blue fish, golden fish, upside down fish, slanting fish - oh, hundreds and hundreds of falling fish!But Akira couldn't be late. So they ran and ran, in the fish rain. Across Kabir's fields they sprang, with the wind howling in their ears and a strong fishy smell tickling their noses.But they couldn't be late. So they ran and ran, in the fish rain... Until Akira noticed that Zero was no longer with her. But it wasn't hard to find him."Stay with me, Zero. You know I can't be late today," she said.So they ran and ran, in the fish rain. Soon they reached the market street. People were holding their baskets high to catch as many falling fish as possible. "Fish for sale! Fresh, fresh fish for sale!" The market was already filled with their loud, excited cries, and it made Akira and Zero feel just a little hungry.But they couldn't be late. So they ran and ran, in the fish rain... Until, all of a sudden, fish stopped falling from the sky.Slowly, the clouds parted, and there it was - a grand, smiling rainbow.Akira jumped with joy and reached out to the sky.They had reached school just in time. And finally, no more running in the fish rain!

A crow was thirsty. He moved a very longdistance in search for water for drinking butfailed. He then tried to fly back. To the tree where hewas living. It took him a long time because hewas weak. As he was moving he saw water in a pot insomeone's compound. The water was almost at the bottom of the pot.His beak could not reach the water in the pot.He thought of a way to get that water. An idea came to his mind.Hegot small stones He dropped one stone andthe water in the pot jumped. The crow put his mouth and drunk the waterdroplets. He got another stone and repeated theexercise. He kept on doing this until he wassatisfied..

As Kian by dandelion flew, the dark clouds in the sky grew. Sheltering under a mushroom top, Kian watched the rain go plop! plop! plop!Plopity plop appeared a puddle, from past experience, Kian found himself wanting a cuddle...So he joined the glow worms in a warm loving huddle.“To stay warm and dry, if into that house you go, you will meet my friend, the lizard!” said the worms that glow. As Kian jumped onto the window sill, he saw the lizard sitting very still.A little girl entered the room, saw the lizard, screaming “AAArrgghh!!”, arms waving went zoom! “What, dear lizard, was that?!” asked Kian.“Aw! That's just her way of saying hello! She is a sweet little dope!I eat the flies, mosquitoes and other insects that bite, just so she can sleep well at night!!” replied the lizard.Watching the lizard hunt and gobble down prey was interesting; however Kian really could not stay. “Aaargh!!” shouted Kian, arms waving. “What was that?!” asked the puzzled glow worms.“Well It would seem wherever I go, I learn a new way of saying hello!!”“Dear Fairy, while I am sure saying hello like that is fun, I must warn you that it might make some people run!”After some thought, Kian replied, “Oh, of course you are right, it is just not polite to give others a fright!”

It was the hottest day of that summer, Mintoo was helping his granny to sell cabbages in the weekly market. Everyone was shouting loud to lure customers to their vegetable stalls.In that hustle bustle the voice came, "Baaai... baaaii..."Mintoo heard something which immediately drawn his attention. Mintoo searched for the source of that voice. In the middle of that crowded market, he was amazed to see a very fat goat baaing, scared and exhausted.Mintoo went near the goat and kept his hand on her head to pacify her. The goat stopped baaing and followed him to their stall in the market. Mintoo and Granny were selling cabbages at the market. They gave some left over cabbages to the goat.That evening they took the goat to their home in the near by village. Mintoo named the goat as 'Kardi' which means light gray. When they reached home granny told Mintoo to take good care of Kardi as she is Pregnant.Mintoo was soo happy to know about arrival of cute little friends so he took good care of Kardi, fed her soft grass and cabbages everyday. Few days later, Kardi gave birth to a tiny goat baby. Mintoo helped her granny to clean the baby. He was surprise to see the baby could immediately stand and started walking after birth! Mintoo and the baby goat baaed and jumped with joy!

The frog and the lizard were oncegood friends . They used to live at the beachwhich was the frog's compound. The frog lived in water but couldalways come out to the beach. The lizard lived on one of the talldry trees near the beach. One day, the lizard requested thefrog to pay a visit to him at hishome on the tree. ''I cannot climb a tree'' a frogexplained to his friend," I will helpyou to climb" answered the lizard. They then agreed to a certain date,the one frog could pay the visit. The day came and the lizard tied arope onto the frog's tail. He started pulling the frog upwardsthe tree .the frog cried out "amfeeling a lot of pain, the lizardhowever, continued pulling therope upwards the frog's tail gotremoved and the Frog fell down. The frog lost his tail to date thefrog does not have its tail.

Every morning when Iwoke up I hurried to eatmy breakfast. Then I would take my blue blouse and run out of the houseto find my friend Muthoni. Once I found Muthoni,we would forgeteverything else. Muthoni and I would play hide and seek.I hid in big trees, while Muthoni went behind huts. Muthoni and I went to the village welltogether.We went to fetch firewood together.We went to school together. We promised each other that we would work hard in schooland graduate. But one day, Muthonidid not come to school.I stood at the door toour class and waited forher to arrive.But she did not come. When I returned home that day, I told my mother about myfriend Muthoni. I continued with school,but I missed Muthonivery much. But every day I went toschool, I looked forMuthoni everywhere. Now I am a lady, but I still miss my friend Muthoni.

A woman carrying her baby went into the forest to pick fruit. In the forest she found a tree with ripe fruit. She put down her sleeping baby and climbed the tree. An erotot from another community came by and saw the baby.Surprised, he asked himself, "Where is the mother of the baby?" As he bent down, the sound of the chains on his neck woke the baby. He let the baby play with his chains. The baby laughed as he played. The woman looked down to see why the baby was laughing. She saw a strange man close to her baby. She was so afraid that she dropped her bag full of fruit. The erotot looked up and said, "Don't be afraid. I'm only playing with your beautiful baby." So the woman came down from the tree. The erotot took off one of his chains. He gave it to the baby, and said, "Here is a gift for you." Then he said to the woman, "Take your baby, take your bag, and go home. Tell your husband to move to a more peaceful village. Your baby has given me peace." _Note: In the language Ng'aturkana, 'erotot' is the word used to to describe a man who goes ahead to survey an area before before an attack takes place. It is similar to the English word 'scout'._

Once upon a time,there lived a happyfamily. They never fought witheach other. They helpedtheir parents at homeand in the fields. But they were notallowed to go near afire. They had to do all theirwork during the night.Because they were made of wax! But one of the boyslonged to go out in thesunlight. One day the longingwas too strong. Hisbrothers warned him... But it was too late!He melted in the hotsun. The wax children wereso sad to see theirbrother melting away. But they made a plan.They shaped the lumpof melted wax into abird. They took their birdbrother up to a highmountain. And as the sun rose, heflew away singing intothe morning light.

Bounce.. Bounce!Anny and Jack went on the trampoline. Suddenly, Jack got an idea! He said to Anny that why don't we go to space!They both went to their house and asked their mother if they can go to space. But their mother said you are too young to go to space. They thought that was not fair.So they made their own toy rocket and played. As they grew up, they became smarter and smarter.Then they again asked their mother if we could go to space. But still their mother said no. Grades passed and they went to college.And at last, they went to office and they got a job.... which made them go to space!! When they were going in space, they saw the full earth and took pictures.When they reached Mars, they saw a satellite vehicle and drove it, They went all around Mars and took one full week to go around Mars fully. They took many pictures.And then they came on news and everybody was surprised to see that.. even their parents.When they returned back to earth everybody praised them and they got 2 crore for doing all this! All the pictures they took was attached in the museum. And everybody liked it.And of course they would quarrel about being a scientist back again!

One day, 'M'e Maneo planted apumpkin seed. It grew into a verybig pumpkin. It blocked her gardenpath. 'M'e Maneo wanted to move thepumpkin. She went to herneighbour. "'M'e Mapalesa,' shesaid, "please help me to move mypumpkin. It is blocking my path."The two ladies pushed and pushed,but that pumpkin did not move. They went to 'M'e Masello. "Pleasehelp us move 'M'e Maneo'spumpkin!" they asked. 'M'e Masellocame to help them. The three ladiespushed and pushed that pumpkin,but still it did not move. "I don'tknow what to do," said 'M'e Maneo. Just then a little worm came into'M'e Maneo's garden. It was hungry.It nibbled the big pumpkin. "Stop,"said the pumpkin. But the littleworm nibbled again. "Stop! You are tickling me," said thepumpkin. "I don't like it." And thepumpkin rolled away down the hill. The pumpkin stopped in a field atthe bottom of the hill. Twoshepherds found it. "What shall wedo with this pumpkin?" they asked."Let's eat it," they said, "it looksdelicious." They took a big stone and tried tobreak open the pumpkin. "No!" cried the pumpkin. Theshepherds jumped back. Thepumpkin began to open. Out of the pumpkin came a moloi.She had one arm, one eye and oneleg. She looked terrible. "Don'tdisturb me," said the moloi in a bigvoice, "I am the pumpkin chief."The pumpkin closed again. The shepherds were veryfrightened. They ran home to telltheir parents. "Oh! We are solucky!" said their parents. "Don'tyou know about the pumpkinmoloi?" "It is a very specialpumpkin," said the shepherds'parents. "You must leave it alone.""Next summer the pumpkin will open again and the moloi willscatter pumpkin seeds all over our villages. We will have many,many pumpkins to eat," said the shepherd's parents. And so it happened that the nextsummer, 'M'e Maneo's pumpkinburst open. It was full of many,many seeds. Out came the pumpkin moloi. Withher one leg she climbed out of thepumpkin. With her one eye shelooked across all the villages. Withher one arm she threw all thoseseeds across the valley. The seeds grew into beautiful bigpumpkins in all the gardens in thevalley. That winter everyone in thevillages had lots of pumpkins to eat.They went to 'M'e Maneo. "Thankyou, 'M'e Maneo!" they cried.

Wondering what to do with wordless stories?Wordless stories are wonderful because they contain infinite possibilities. Here are a few ideas for engaging with children using visual stories:- Explore the story in a leisurely manner. Draw attention to the details - the expressions of the characters, setting, colours, etc. The idea is for each child to build her own story. If the story is being shown to a group of children, you could ask each of them to contribute a sentence or two for each illustration. Take joy in exploring each illustration and build the story as you go along.- Use themes explored in the story to start a discussion. For instance, in this story, you could ask children about what they do for their birthday, or even how they help out at home.- Encourage children to create 2-3 different stories using the same set of visuals. This will help push their imagination.

Sipho goes to town withhis sister. His sister is looking atthe clothes in shops.Sipho is bored. Sipho sees somethinghe likes. The shoes are on sale. He tries them all on. His sister buys himsoccer shoes. Why are they in such ahurry to get home? Luckily he got to thesoccer field on time! Heis wearing his newsoccer shoes.

The dandelion landed on a grassy river bank.For such a truly wonderful sight,Kian, the Indigo Fairy,wondered who he could thank!! As Kian went to give the baby buffalo a cuddle, he found himself in a puddle.Off went the calf with the teeth, into the water, his mother to meet!Dear Fairy, if in this herd, you want to make a friend,sitting silently, peace and love out you send... said the Buffalo herder. As Kian's meditation went deep, out of the water, the buffaloes started to creep.The breath moves in...the breath moves out...The dust begins to settle down, clarity of mind can be found.With the mind clear, Kian begins to feel. Like an onion, the layers begin to peel...Peace arises...Love starts to flow...Kian is enveloped by a special glow... Kian decided to lie down,when he woke up this is what he found.Once again he was in a puddle,but this time it was becausethe wet buffaloes wanted a cuddle! The new friends started to play...Kian showed the buffaloes how to play ring a ring of roses... The Buffaloes showed Kian their favourite game of blowing bubbles... When they got tired, they played a game they had all enjoyed;Sitting silently together, they generated a loving vibe! Adventure calls “Whee whee whee”Dandelion in hand, Kian climbs up a tree.Kian thought while waiting for a gust of wind...“Today I learnt that sometimes in life being polite,means simply not doing anything that gives others a fright.”

For ages, Olokwango hill stood smiling at the middleof Kwere plains. From the two dimples on its sidecame springs which converged downhill to form ariver. River Temu meandered silently across theKwere plains. Its waters were a gift to the sheep andgoats of the area as well as the deer that dwelt in theplains. Things were all well until Matata became headman.He ordered a path to be cleared from the top of thehill to the foot so that he could climb uphill easilyand roll gently down to the foot. Olokwango hill wasangry with the damage to his beard, but he waspatient. During the weekend, Matata's children and theirfriends would climb uphill to play.They would run all over the place, breaking twigsand branches, lighting fires for their games, whichthey would later leave burning. Over time, Olokwango lost patience. The dimplesbecame smaller and smaller as his face turned intougly wrinkles.At last the springs were no more. The deer in theplains migrated because there was no more the tallgreen grass to play in. The sheep and goats grewthinner and thinner.Everyone felt the sadness of Olokwango hill. The people of Kwere realized that something neededto be done.They joined hands and overthrew Matata theheadman.In his place they appointed Baraka who immediatelyordered everyone to plant a flower to honourOlokwango. Baraka and his people held ceremoniesand brought gifts of pine, cedar, and cypress forOlokwango. No one walked on the hill any longer, and the grasshad a chance to grow tall once again.Gradually the smile on the face of Olokwango hillgrew broader and the dimples deeper. Out of thedimples the springs ran again. River Temu wasrejuvenated. The plains became greener than everbefore. The deer galloped happily once more acrossthe grass. "Long live Baraka, long live Baraka," the people ofKwere sang."Long live, Olokwango," said Baraka and his people."May our children and children's children foreverrespect you."

To walk, a child needs his parents, but to fly, the child needs the entire universe and all its creations.All Indigo Fairy children leave home when they can walk and go on a journey full of adventure, new friends and discovery where they learn to fly!As Kian left home, his mother said,“Dear little one, always be polite and you will find that finding your flower guide will be a lot of fun!" Kian, the Indigo Fairy at this moment meditates on a lotus flower with the frogs.Using his mother's advice he asks very politely-“Dearest frogs, I wonder if you could help me find a flower, a very special flower with great, great power!” His friend, a swimming frog leads him across the pond to a lovely flower which might just be the one, it's as white as snow and grows under the sun. Flower guides are very distinct,a fairy knows his guide by pure instinct.The flower starts to sway and dance;this puts the fairy into a special trance!Lying among the lovely white snowflakes,Kian knows his search must continue.The green frogs point the way to the forest. A leaping frog takes Kian deep into the forest where the passion flower lives.“Thank you leaping frog, it is truly beautiful.Even though it is not the one,it makes my heart glad and hopeful!”“Dear fairy, if you stop for a rest, it might be of interestto visit the wise tree frog that lives among the mushrooms in this forest.” Kian sits silently in an empty bird's nest for a while,he and the wise tree frog open their eyes together and smile.The wise tree frog sends Kian off to meet his friend who always gets a dreamy look when he talks about his flower!“Dear Fairy, I would like to leave you with this little rhyme-If only we would take the time to stay,we would learn a lot along the way.An adventure you see is rarely about the end,it is about the start, the middle and thingsthat await us around the bend!” “Your flower indeed is very sweetand it was ever so nice to meet,but I will just be on my way.”As Kian was leaving, he was a little confused,this visit seemed to be of no use.It was then that he decided to stay.As he gazed at the frog, he could now seea flower is only as special as we make it out to be. The Hungry Frog“Take a break and have a treat,this dragonfly is good enough to eat!”“Thank you, I had better join you,watching the dragonfly crumble is making my belly rumble!”Munch munch munchgoes Kian as he happily eatshis orange carrot with a crunch. Mommy and Daddy FrogFattened up after his snack, Kian sees a frog on another frog's back!“Dearest frogs, I wonder if you could help me find a flower , a very special flower with great, great power!"“We are very busy laying our eggs as you can see”“Oh dear! Oh dear! How rude of me!”“Sweet little fairy, if you come back in a while,we might be able to show you a flower which will make you smile!” “Good bye dearest frogs, it has been ever so fun,I am thrilled, just thrilled to have found the one!”“Will the dandelion take you home?”“That I really could not say, but I learnt a lot and it was all play,so farewell dear friends, I will be on my way!”Dangling from a dandelion, a gust of wind blows Kian away to his next adventure. At the exact same time as Kian finds his special flower, the dandelion, other Indigo Fairy children who started their journey with him also find their flower guides.You see Indigo Fairies are only as strong as they can be together so while their journeys are separate, the learning is shared.

Antoni, who is that?Antoni, that's LettiaAntoni, what is shedoing? Antoni, she isskipping.One! MamlenzemamlenzeTwo! MamlenzemamlezeThree! You're out!

Once there was a frog named Fonky. Fonky jumped into a pond to meet his friends. He had many fish friends. They played catch and cook. Then suddenly Tutu, the turtle came. They were all happily surprised. Fonky jumped on Tutu's back, Marina jumped over Fonky in joy. Gippy asked Tutu, "Where were you all this while? We were waiting for you.. Come and join us!" Tutu joined them to play. They suddenly heard a loud sound! The little fish got scared, but Tutu was brave and he said," Let's go and see what happened." They saw a big yellow box sitting in the water. Everyone started poking it. Suddenly there was music coming from it." Oh! It is a Radio!", said Fonky. Goldie, the goldfish, came to meet Fonky and the friends. Fonky told her about the new Radio. Goldie was very excited, she turned up the volume, "BOOM! BOOM! BOOM!" and they all had a fishy party! Everyone danced a lot and had lots of fun! Fonky, Tutu and Goldie were then tired. Fonky said, "I must go back home, my mother is waiting for me". Tutu said, "Good bye! Let's do this again tomorrow." And they all went home.

One day, mama got a lot of fruit. "When can we have some fruit?" we ask."We will have the fruit tonight," says mama. My brother Rahim is greedy. He tastes all the fruit. He eats a lot of it. "Look at what Rahim did!" shouts my little brother."Rahim is naughty and selfish," I say. Mother is angry with Rahim. We are also angry with Rahim. But Rahim is not sorry. "Aren't you going to punish Rahim?" asks little brother. "Rahim, soon you will be sorry," warns mama. Rahim starts to feel sick. "My tummy is so sore," whispers Rahim. Mama knew this would happen. The fruit is punishing Rahim! Later, Rahim says sorry to us. "I will never be so greedy again," he promises.And we all believe him.

It was a sunny morning Bhalu the bear was taking his usual stroll in the woods. He inhaled the fresh smell of the poppies which was standing near him. Just then a cool breeze swept past him. He saw the poppies and began to smile at them with glee.Suddenly the tree began to speak "Hey Bhalu! sit down and get your drawing book you can draw anything you like I'll provide you with my cool breeze.Bhalu decided to listen to the talking tree he went home to get his book. He got his drawing book and sat in the cool shade of the tree. He smiled and drew a map of the world. The tree was amazed to see Bhalu's talent. Then Bhalu drew a picture of him and the tree hugging together the tree was appeased he smiled and called his friends They all began to shower him with their cool breeze. THen really the tree with it's branches hugged Bhalu They became best friends. Bhalu went home and got his camera to take photos with him and his friend and the poppies and the trees which generously gave him the cool breeze. His friend winked and he gave poses for Bhalu's camera. Then Bhalu went to the poppies and took photos of them. Then the trees which gave bhalu lots of breeze also gave poses for Bhalu's camera. By then it was evening Bhalu the bear hugged his friend and said "Oh my dear friend how i wish you were a bear like me we could have built a simple spaceship and gone to see the moon you're the best friend that anyone has. I won't let anybody cut you or chop you until i'm there for you buddy. The tree was touched by the devotion of the bear. He said"Thank you dear friend!" There is a Museum nearby you must visit it and then only you should go home if you value me please do that. "Of course friend!". I will come everyday to this place i'll see you tomorrow. The museum was full of people's Bhalu took his camera with his tripod and began to take photos to show his friend tomorrow to prove that he had gone there. Bhalu looked at the stars and said "Oh god! thank you for such a wonderful gift i have the greatest gift given by you "Friendship" You have lightened my life by giving me a friend." Saying so Bhalu goes to his house in the trees and sleeps thinking about his dear friend who provided him with cool breeze.

tra-la-la-la...rum-pa-pum-pa-pum... What a lovely day to make some memories! Let me set up my camera and start clicking away. Click Click. Waah! The warm glow of the sun now caught in my camera so beautifully. I have no words to describe the breathtaking scenery in front of me. Maybe only the images in my camera can do justice to it. Click Click. Oh! But wait! Even though it is all so stunning, something is amiss. I am missing something. What is it that does not feel right? Ah! Yes! I got it. My eyes are the best camera and my brain is the best memory. Let me stand here and soak it all in. No camera. No clicks. Just me and Mother Nature in all it's glory. I will cherish this forever in my heart. Now it clicks perfectly!

Once upon a time, there was asmall boy named Musau who livedwith his father Syonzola. Syonzola stayed out drinking untilvery late every night and Musauhardly ever saw him. When Musau's father camehome, he would scream,"Villagers, villagers! Comeand rescue me! I am being attackedby a hyena." On hearing Syonzola'sscreams, the villagers would comewith their arrows and spears andpangas, to rescue him.But they would find that he wasdrunk and just teasing them. Musau's father continueddrinking and shouting for help lateat night. The villagers continuedgoing with arrows and spears andpangas to rescue him. But eachtime it was the same story. Hewould only be teasing them. Every time Musau's fatherreturned home late, Musau wouldbe woken by the screams for help.Musau knew his father'svoice very well.He would listen as Syonzola movedin the dark until he reached thedoor of their house. One night, Syonzola came homedrunk as usual. But this time, ahyena hid near the house.When Syonzola screamed, thehyena fiercely attacked him. Syonzola screamed so loudly.But the villagers said, "We aretired of Syonzola'stricks."They turned over in their beds andwent back to sleep. As usual, Syonzola's screamswoke up his son Musau.Musau listened for hisfather's steps as he alwaysdid.But his father did not seem to movecloser to the house. Musau sat upand listened more keenly. "My father is really indanger," Musau said."This time he is notteasing." Musau jumped up from his bed.He grabbed a smoldering log fromthe fire and rushed out of the hut. "Father, father," hecalled.In the moonlight, Musau sawSyonzola struggling with an animal.He raised the burning log.When the hyena saw the fiery log,he ran away. After that, Syonzola never went outagain to drink.Instead, he spent his days tellinginteresting stories to the schoolchildren.

Once upon a time there was a crocodile named Gabbar. Gabbar was scared of swimming. So he could not catch the fishes in the water. Gabbar used to hide behind the tall grass and look longingly at the fishes with his mouth watering to eat them. He was not a little crocodile any more, but still his Aai used to get fish from the lake and feed him everyday but only when nobody else was looking. One day Gabbar was very hungry and Gabbar started crying. His mother could not see him cry, so she quickly brought a fish for him. Seeing this Beduk and Baabo the frogs started laughing "drav drav", Sapu the snake started laughing "Hisssssss Hissssss", Titli and Fullpakhru the butterflies started laughing loudly. "Gabbar is a baby, Gabbar is a baby" they all made fun of him. Gabbar felt ashamed and he started crying. Gabbar was a very sad crocodile that day. All the other animals saw sad Gabbar and felt sorry for him. Seeing Gabbar sad his best friend Gogalguy the snail felt very bad and he decided to help Gabbar. Gogalguy got an idea. He shared his plans with the other animals. Titli the butterfly came and told Gabbar that Gogalguy is drowning. Hearing about his friend Gogalguy drowning Gabbar jumped in the water and started swimming. He forgot all about his fear of swimming in the water. He only wanted to save his friend Gogalguy. He went searching for his friend, swimming from one end of the lake to the other end but he could not find Gogalguy anwhere. Gabbar started crying. Titli flew and kissed Gabbar on his forehead and told him " Gabbar, Gogalguy is safe and he is on land. All this was a part of plan. Gabbar see you are swimming now, You are a Hero". All the animals and Gabbars Aai were very happy seeing Gabbar swim. Ever since Gabbar is a happy crocodile.

Tembe wakes up at seven o'clock inthe morning, just after the firstcockcrow.she washes her face,brushes herteeth, puts on her school uniformand leaves for school. Her elder brotherescorts her, they talkwhile moving untilTembe reaches school. At 8:10 she is already inclass, ready for lessons. At break time she plays with herfriends in order to refresh theirminds and also in preparation forthe next lesson. while in class, sheparticipates fully andteacher Nabune likesthat. The teacher gives themtime to rest after a longlesson and Tembe liesnext to the teacher when they wake up, thehelps them cross therailway and get backhome when Tembe gets home, she spends some time with herfamily members. after supper, shebathes, puts her nightwear goes to bed praysand finally sleeps tillthe next day. How do you spend your day?

Khayanga lived with her parentshappily until they died when shewas ten years old. Khayanga was taken in by Rosa, adistant relative.Rosa was kind to Khayanga, but shewas old, frail and poor. Khayanga often visited her parents'graves to tell them of her misery. One day when she visited, shereceived a gift. It was a very specialGourd which appeared from herparents' graves. The Gourd sang a beautiful andsoothing song. Khayangarecognised the voice as that of herlate mother.It went like this...Khayanga, ee, Khayanga!Our child the loved one!You're not alone, loved one!Have this gourd, loved one!Carry it everywhere you go, loved one!Let it console you loved one! Khayanga carried her special Gourdeverywhere.With her Gourd, Khayanga felt herparents' presence and protection. One day, something bad happenedto her special Gourd. It broke whenshe was fetching water in the river.Khayanga's heart broke as well. Khayanga held the pieces of thebroken Gourd in her small handsand sang:Father and Mother,See the gourd is broken.The gourd you gave me.What do I do, Mother and Father?Be kind and show me a sign...That you are still with me. Khayanga heard her mother's voicesaying to her:"Our child, pick up the pieces thatare left.Fetch water with them and washyour feet.When you finish washing, close youreyes."Khayanga obeyed and suddenly,the broken Gourd became wholeonce again. Khayanga continued to carry herGourd everywhere she went.Wherever she passed, peoplewhispered to each other, "Whattype of gourd is this?"With her special Gourd, Khayangareceived everything she needed. With the special Gourd, Khayangaknew that her parents werewatching over her.Nothing bad could happen to her.

A story is told of a man who lived in a far away village withhis son. His name was Syonzola and he was a verymischievous man. People in the village didn't like him verymuch because he liked to lie a lot. At night, Syonzola would wait until everyone was asleep andhe would stand outside and start shouting, "HELP, HELP, I'MBEING ATTACKED. PLEASE SOMEONE HELP ME." The people would come running to help him with spears intheir hands."Hahahahahaha" Syonzola would laugh until hisstomach was sore when he saw them. "Are you ok?""Where is the animal that wasattacking you?" People would shout"It went that way, please help,"Syonzola would say to them andpoint at the darkness behind thetrees.After they had searched the wholevillage and found no viciousanimal, they would tell him to stophis lies and go to sleep. One night his son heard him screaming and shouting for helpagain. His son never understood why his dad liked to prankpeople. But on this night his son didn't hear people openingtheir doors and running to help, he only heard his father The other villagers were not in the mood to wake up becausethey knew Syonzola was up to his old tricks again. So theydecided to sleep and wait for him to stop his loud screams. "Help, Help me please," his son waited and waited. But thistime he could sense that something was terribly wrongbecause now he was hearing something else that soundedscary and his father's cries were much louder than normal. So the boy ran out and saw that the vicious animal wasattacking his father. And he was brave and weaved his firestick at the animal and the animal ran away from the fire. The animal ran very fast into thedarkness. Syonzola was so proud tosee how brave his son was.He was very grateful to his son forsaving him from the vicious animalthat night. From that day Syonzola never told a lie again and wasforever grateful to his son for saving his life. Instead ofscreaming "Help Help" he now told everyone in the villageabout his brave son.

A monkey lived in a bigtree on the bank of ariver. In the middle ofthe river there was asmall island. Lots offruit trees grew on thatisland. The monkey wanted togo and eat the fruit. Hesaw a big rock half wayacross the river and hethought he could jumponto the rock, and thenonto the island. He jumped into the airand landed on the rock.He jumped again andreached the island. Heenjoyed eating the fruitand then went backhome. He did thisseveral times. But a crocodile lived inthe river with his wife!The wife said, "Dearhusband, you should goand lie on the rock. Thecolour of your skinmatches the colour ofthe rock." A few days later, thecrocodile saw themonkey coming ontothe island. He quietlyclimbed over the rockand carefully lay downon it and kept his faceunderwater. The monkey finishedeating and was ready togo back. But the rocklooked higher thanusual, so he spoke tothe rock, "Dear rock,you seem to havegrown. Are you allright?" The crocodile was a fooland thought the rockmust be a talking rock.So he answered themonkey and said, "Ilook bigger because abig crocodile is lying onme". The monkey said, "Dearcrocodile, I know youwant to eat me. I amvery old and you canhave my body. But Imust say goodbye tomy children in that bigtree." So the crocodilegave him a ride on hisback! As soon as they werethere, the monkeyclimbed the tree andsaid, "Thank you for theride, my dear friend.Goodbye, now you cango home!" But thecrocodile said, "But youpromised...." The monkey laughedand said, "What a foolyou were to believeme!" and disappearedbehind the branches ofthe tree. The crocodilenever did catch thatclever monkey!

Sarla liked to watch birds fly.One day, during science class, she looked out of the window and saw an eagle gliding in the sky. How happy the bird must be! She also liked to see planes flying.“Here, what's your name? Should you not be looking at the board?” asked the new teacher in Sarla's class.Sarla got up hastily and said, “Sorry Madam, I was watching an eagle. I wish we could fly like a bird, or like an aeroplane....”“What is your name?”“Sarla.” “Oh how nice! Do you know that Sarla was the name of the first Indian women pilot too? My name, Hamsa, means a swan. Swans are one of the largest flying birds, you know,” said the teacher. “You must spend some time in the library, Sarla. I'm sure there are many books about birds and flights, and machines that fly like aeroplanes.”Over the next few days, Sarla happily learnt a lot about birds, and about aeroplanes. Sarla learnt that human beings can fly too, but not like birds. We can fly to any city in the world in an aeroplane, one of mankind's greatest inventions.With the help of this great machine, we can also experience the joy of being airborne. Birds are aerial creatures that do not need an external machine to fly. Usually, a bird's wings are bigger than the rest of its body. The wings are very light, making it possible for birds to fly. Aeroplanes are huge and very heavy. Just like birds, aeroplanes have wings on both their sides which help them to fly. The wings of the plane are shaped just like those of birds - curved on the top and flat on the bottom which helps them to fly high up in the sky. Birds flap their wings to fly, but of course we have never seen an aeroplane flapping its wings! Birds flap their wings as they use the wind to push their body upwards.Aeroplanes also fly with the help of the force of the wind. This machine uses the engine inside its body to create wind that flows below the plane. An engine is a very strong machine which acts like the brain of the plane. Just like a bird uses its mind and logic to navigate its flight, engines help planes to push them above the ground and to help them move forward. When the plane's engines burn fuel, they release hot gases at high speeds which push on the air behind the engine, moving the plane forward. Cars and other vehicles with engines move forward too. But they cannot go up in the sky like planes. The wind flows over and under their wings which are shaped like birds' wings and lifts the plane into the sky and keeps it there.Planes also have tails, just like birds, to keep them steady and help them change direction.ٴ Planes need big long roads to take off and land. These long roads are called runways and planes need to travel very fast on the runway before they can take off into the air. Planes need to gain a lot of speed to lift off in the air.Most aeroplanes can take off only if they are moving fast enough. The runway is an important part of the airport as it gives aeroplanes enough time to increase their speed and ultimately take off. Planes know where they have to go because they are steered by pilots. The pilots control the plane from a place in the front of the aeroplane called the cockpit. They keep in contact with the airport (a place from where the planes take off and land) through very accurate and modern devices. Just like there are signals and police to help us on the roads, there are air traffic controllers who tell pilots when and where to fly; and when it is safe to take off or land.A plane is actually a giant bird. It is not only shaped like a bird, it also allows us to fly, though not like birds! Sarla wants to be a pilot and fly aeroplanes when she grows up. Did You Know?India's first aircraft was the Harlow which first flew in July 1941.The first pilot license in India was awarded to JRD Tata in February 1929 by the Aero Club of India and Burma. The fastest jet aircraft in the world is the Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird which flies at a speed faster than the speed of sound.Sarla Thakral was the first Indian woman to fly an aircraft. She was also the first woman pilot to accumulate over 1000 hours of flying. Let's take off!Have fun with friends with these activities:1. Make paper planes and see whose plane goes the farthest. Is it the paper or the way it has been made that makes a paper plane go faster? Observe what happens when each plane is launched. Is there a difference if you blow over, or into or under the plane before you shoot it off?2. Fly-Don't fly Game: Get a group of friends to 'fly' around the room, without touching each other. The den stands in a corner and calls out the names of flying or non-flying objects. When a non-flying object (like table) is called, the 'planes' must 'land' (sit down). Whoever makes a mistake is the next den.

This is a Manyatta.It is my home.My home is in TurkanaCounty. This is a camel.In Turkana Countypeople keep manydifferent animals.But the camel is veryimportant. These are my teachers.I like going to school.My school is calledLolupe Primary School.I like my Art teachervery much. This is a ship.Ships are big.They are used totransport people andgoods on water.If I go to Mombasa, Ican see a ship. This is a bed.I like the bed that myfather made for me.I share it with myyounger brother.It is comfortable. This is a cock.At home, we have twococks.We also have manychickens.The chickens lay manyeggs. This is a mouse.Mice are dangerousanimals.They eat food.They also destroyclothes.They can causedisease. This is a dog.Dogs are domesticanimals.Our dog is called Daa.He barks a lot. This is an umbrella.My parents have a bigumbrella.It has red, blue, orangeand green colours.When it rains, we usean umbrella so we donot get wet. I am in class two and I know many things.I want to know many more.What I do not know, I ask my parents or my teacher.

Once upon a time, there was a very shy train named Chulli. Chulli was fascinated with cows. But one day, Chulli got scared when he saw a cow right on his tracks.

It was a cold and wet morning in the forest. Mod the little toad was tired of swimming in cold water."I need to leave this place during the rainy season," she said to herself. "I want an adventure," said Mod to the terrapin. "I must find out about the world.""Be careful, don't leave the water for too long or your skin will dry out," warned the wise terrapin. At that time, toads still had smooth wet skin like frogs. Without water, their skins would become too dry. But Mod the toad was curious. "I must find out, I must go beyond the forest," she said.Mod hopped out of the water. Hop, hop, she went, away from the river. She had fun jumping over the rocks, across grass, and past trenches. She heard the sound of an airplane. Mod looked up into the sky. "What is up there?" she asked, "I wonder if the clouds are talking." But no one answered her. Mod carried on her way. She met a chameleon for the first time. He was next to a large puddle of water. "Hello, I am on my way to dry land for adventure. What can you tell me?" she asked."Nothing much stranger. It rains here too. Lots of rain and lots of flies," replied the chameleon. As Chameleon was talking, his body changed colour. Mod got a fright. She quickly said goodbye to Chameleon and hopped into a nearby bush. But she was unlucky. Hyena was busy burning bushes in preparation for planting season. Mod did not want to turn around for fear of meeting the chameleon again. She stayed in the bush, only her round eyes could be seen. They were big with fear. Mod was surrounded by fire! Mod did not know where to go. The flames began to burn her back. Then the little toad remembered the puddle of water where she met the chameleon. She closed her eyes, held her breath, and jumped high in the direction of the puddle. She was lucky this time. She landed in the puddle, and the water put out the flames that were burning her skin. But the damage was done. When she came out of the puddle, the skin on her back was full of blisters. Mod did not want an adventure anymore. She wanted to go home. But she did not know the way back to her river in the forest. So the little toad found a cool, dark place under a rock and sadly made a new home. Her burned skin slowly healed, but it was dry and bumpy. This is why toads have dry rough skin, and can live away from water.Frogs still have smooth wet skin and need to stay where it's wet.

Mouse was looking for a newhouse. This looks like a nice house. "You can come and sleep withme," said Puppy."Thank you," said Mouse. That night, Mouse's dreamswere bouncy and muddy. "You can come and sleep withme," said Parrot."Thank you," said Mouse. That night, Mouse's dreamswere noisy and wild. "You can come and sleep withme," said Fish."Thank you," said Mouse. That night, Mouse's dreamswere cold and wet. Mouse needed somewherewarm and dry.  Mouse found a bookshelfnearby. That night, Mouse had warmand cosy dreams.Good night Mouse.

Once upon a time there livedtwo friends, Hyena and Hare.Hyena was a hardworkingfarmer. He woke up early everymorning and went to work in hisfield. Hare woke up when it wasalready broad daylight. Hewould yawn and stretch. Thenhe would go looking for food. Most mornings, Hare would takesome seeds from Hyena'sgranary. Then he went to hisfield and pretended to work. Hewould light a fire and roast theseeds. He did nothing, excepteat roasted seeds. At harvest time, Hare went andstole his friend's ripe maize. Hecarried it to his own granary. Hyena complained about thestolen crops. Hare answered,"Maybe the neighbours stoleyour maize. They are sufferingfrom famine because they arelazy." Hyena thought about thisproblem for a long time. Hecame up with an idea.He collected gum from thetrees. He put that sticky gumaround the whole field. Thethief would get stuck in thegum. During the night, Hare went toHyena's field to steal moremaize. Before entering the fieldhe looked around to see if itwas safe. Hare did not see the gum thatHyena had put around the field.Hare stood in the gum and wasstuck. He started shouting forhelp. Hyena heard the shouts and ranout to catch the thief.He could not believe his eyes. Itwas his friend Hare who wasstuck in the gum! From that time, Hyena went his way and Hare went theother way.That marked the end of their friendship.

In a forest, there lived a rat by name Moti and his friend Mohan, an elephant. They eat and play together. One day Mohan got trapped in a net. Mohan cried loudly. On hearing Mohan's voice Moti ran to help. Moti started cutting the net with its sharp teeth. Slowly Mohan was able to come out of the net. Mohan thanked Moti for saving his life and they lived happily forever.

Baboon and Crocodile were thebest of friends. They playedtogether. They ate together.They did everything together. But one day, Crocodile got sosick that he was almost dead.When he saw that his sicknesswas getting worse, Crocodilewent to the nyabezi who said,"If you want to get better, youhave to eat baboon meat." When he heard this, Crocodilewas sad. But there was no otheroption to heal himself except toeat his friend the baboon. When Baboon went to see hisfriend, Crocodile put him on hisback and took him out to thedeepest part of the river. Crocodile said, "The nyabezitold me that if I am to be healedI must eat you, my friend." Then, Baboon replied, "No, myfriend. Don't eat me. I'm toosmall. Wait a minute and I'll callmy grandfather. He's biggerthan me. Eat him and you'll befull." Then Crocodile said, "Where isthis grandfather of yours?"Baboon said, "He's in that tree,over on that island." Crocodilesaid, "Go get him so that I mayeat him." Baboon jumped off Crocodile'sback and ran straight up thetree and stayed there. Crocodilewaited and waited. But hedidn't see any sign of Baboon.And that was the end of theirfriendship.

Tooka and Poi love collecting things. Smooth pebbles from the riverside, twirly and tickly fern leaves, bright red buttons that have fallen from a school uniform — Tooka and Poi pick them all up. Every day, they meet after school, near the bendy coconut tree by the river, and wait for their best friend.At five o' clock on the dot, Inji arrives, huffing and puffing like an old school bus. Inji is a friendly dog with eyes the colour of chocolate and a tail that never stops wagging. Together, Tooka, Poi, and Inji walk, heads bent, scanning the gleaming road, the tufts of grass, and moss-covered rocks for interesting things to collect. Their favourite thing to collect are seeds!Tooka and Poi collect shiny red seeds that look like ladybirds, spiky burrs that stick to their clothes, and the giant bean-shaped pods of the copper pod tree. The pods make a delightful tshh-tsh-tshh sound when Tooka and Poi shake it about. Poi loves to make up funny songs to go with the seed music. “Inji is the best of dogs,She likes big flowers and little frogs,And birds and seeds and ants and snails,But best of all, she loves her tail!”Over and over she sings these songs, making Tooka laugh and Inji bark happily. Tooka, Poi, and Inji are sitting by the tamarind tree. Tooka's favourite seeds are the pudgy pods from around this tree.He loves to suck on its sour flesh until he gets to the shiny brown seeds inside. It makes Tooka's face scrunch up in funny ways and the hair on the back of his neck stands up. Suddenly they hear a small squeaky voice say “Hellllooooo." Tooka and Poi look at each other, puzzled. They can't see anybody.“Up here! Up here!” they hear the voice say again.Tooka and Poi look up and down, and all around, but there isn't a person in sight. “It's me, Pacha. I'm the tamarind tree.” Inji barks loudly and wags her tail faster than normal. Phat-phat-phat it goes, back and forth.“Why hello Inji,” Pacha the Tree says. “I haven't seen you in days!” Tooka and Poi become still as statues. Their eyes widen and their mouths freeze in big 'O' shapes.Finally, Poi smiles shyly and says, “Hello Pacha the Tamarind Tree. It's nice to meet you. I'm Poi!” Then she gives the tree a big hug. Pacha giggles, “I've never been hugged by a little girl before! It feels tickly!”“And we've never met a talking tree before!” Tooka says, cheerfully, “So this is an adventure for all of us.” Hearing this, Pacha laughs loudly, making the leaves on his branches glow a brighter green.“What are you two up to today?” Pacha asks. “We're collecting things!” Tooka and Poi say! Tooka and Poi show Pacha the Tree their bag of flowers, pebbles, and sticky tamarind.“How lovely that you're collecting seeds!” Pacha says. “Do you know I came from one of those little tamarind seeds? And look at me now, all grown up with so many branches and a big family of sparrows and squirrels and crows living with me.”“What do you mean?” Tooka asks. Inji barks enthusiastically. Bow! Bow! Bow! Inji said but Tooka is sure it sounds like “How? How? How?” “Those seeds you're collecting,” Pacha explains, “They're all tree babies.”“They are?” Poi asks, her eyebrows scrunched into squiggly black lines.“Do all seeds grow into tamarind trees?” Poi asks, trying to remember how many seeds she has at home. “Oh no!” Pacha replies. “Seeds grow into all sorts of things.”“Do you have any fruit in your bag?” Pacha asks. Tooka nods and pulls out a small, red apple and a soggy banana. “There you go!” Pacha says, excitedly. “Now bite into the apple until you reach the centre. You'll see little brown seeds sitting there.”“They're like shiny little bugs!” says Poi.“Aren't they pretty?” Pacha asks. “Those little seeds grow into apple trees”“Now break the banana in half and see what you find,” Pacha instructs. “I see the seeds!” Tooka says excitedly. “They look like a sleeping millipede!”“Seeds come in all shapes and sizes”, Pacha says while Inji gobbles the last of the apple. “Are they all tree babies?” Poi asks.“Yes!” says Pacha. “And they all have a little plant inside, waiting to come out and see the world.” As Tooka, Poi, and Inji walk home that evening, they look closely at all the trees along the road.How pretty the leaves of the coconut tree look as they dance in the wind.How beautiful the red gulmohar flowers are against the bright blue sky.How nice and rough the bark of the mango tree feels under their palms.And how wonderful that something as big and important as a tree starts out as a teeny, weeny little seed. Tooka, Poi, and Inji still meet every evening after school. But now, Tooka and Poi collect things in which they can plant the seeds they collect. Old shoes, empty coconut shells, even used plastic bottles — everything can be turned into pots.And every once in a while, they stop by for a chat with Pacha the Tree. Pacha's Super Seed GuideHello! I'm Pacha, the tamarind tree, but I go by all sorts of names. I'm called imli in Hindi, puli in Tamil, and tentul in Bengali. Scientists call me Tamarindus indica.Let me introduce you to some of my seed friends. You may have seen them on your dinner plate. MolaguCommon name: Red chilliScientists call me: Capsicum annumChillies come in all shapes, sizes, and colours, and are grown all over the world. Its seeds are small, circular, and flat, and add spice to dal and bhaji. Careful when you touch them, they'll make your fingers burn!KaapiCommon name: CoffeeScientists call me: Coffeea ArabicaYou know the coffee your parents drink every morning? That comes from coffee berries. The seeds from the berries are dried, roasted, and then powdered. Coffee bushes grow best in hilly regions of South India.ChakkaCommon name: JackfruitScientists call me: Artocarpus heterophyllusBerries, apples, bananas, watermelon, and jackfruit — all fruits have seeds in them. Some seeds we cannot eat, like that of the mango. Others, like the jackfruit, are used to make curries after they are soaked in water. ThengaCommon name: CoconutScientists call me: Cocos NuciferaNearly every part of the hard, brown coconut is useful to us. The hairy, hard outside part is used to make rope, the fleshy inside is used in food, and the coconut water is a delicious drink, especially when it's hot outside. And the oil that you put in your hair? That comes from the coconut too.KappalandiCommon name: PeanutScientists call me: Arachis hypogaeaAll plants love soil, but peanuts love the earth so much that they grow underground. And that's why some people call them groundnuts. These little seeds are packed with goodness and are delicious when eaten raw, steamed, or roasted. ChoruCommon name: RiceaScientists call me: Oryza sativaRice is one of the most popular grains! It's eaten in more homes in India than any other seed I know. On the plant, rice actually has a rough, brown cover, like a jacket, which keeps the seed inside safe and sound.ChocolateCommon name: ChocolateScientists call me: Theobroma cacao (which means food of the gods)Rice might be the most popular seed, but cacao is definitely the most loved seed of all — especially by Tooka and Poi. The cacao seed is where chocolate comes from. Each cacao fruit has about 30-50 seeds that are roasted and then mixed with sugar and milk to make bars of delightful chocolate.

once upon a time the was a girlby the name of EmilyEmily was very naughty whenever her mother asked herto do anything she would refuse One day her mother was sick.She asked her to go hergrandma and ask for somespecial medicine, so that shecan drink and get better.Because Emily was naughty,she decided to go and have aswim on her way to grand ma. It became late, her mother started to worry. Her mother called the people of the village to help her look for Emily She was very worried becausethere was a monster who eatslittle girls at night While the people were lookingfor Emily, she was still havingfun in the pond.She was not aware of thedarkness It was time for dinner for themonster and he started lookingfor food. As he was walking hestarted to smell a little girl.The village people were gettingcloser and closer to the pond. Emily saw the monster comingand she started to scream.The people of the village hearda little girl's scream and theystarted to run towards the voice The people of the village foundemily still in the pond, she wasvery scared.And from that day she learnedto listen and to respect hermother.

Once upon a time there was an oldwoman who lived alone. She hadmany chickens. Among them was arooster that was very old and couldno longer crow. One day the old woman's grandsonvisited. She was very happy to seehim. She asked the young man tocatch the old rooster so they couldcook and eat it. The old rooster heard the womantalking and its heart sank."Aaiii, you are also very old but Idon't see anyone trying to kill you,we will see!"So the old rooster sneaked awayand decided to head for the big cityto start singing. As the old rooster walked, he metthe cat."What has happened?" the catasked."My friend, my boss wants to eatme because I can no longer tell herthe time," said the old rooster."I am going to the big city to sing.Where are you going?""My friend, my boss has alsodecided to kill me because I can nolonger catch rats. I am runningaway," said the cat. "Can I joinyou?""Let's go!" said the old rooster. They had walked a short while whenthey saw a dog running very fast.The old rooster called the dog andasked why he was running so fast."My friend, my boss chased mebecause I can no longer catchthieves," replied the dog whilepanting."We have similar problems. We aregoing to the big city to sing," saidthe old rooster."Can I join you?" asked the dog. The three animals set off together.As they were walking, a horsestopped them and asked what washappening."Our bosses want to kill us becausewe can no longer do our jobs," theyall replied together."I have the same problem, whereare you going?" asked the horse."We are going to the big city tosing," they replied.The horse asked to join them andthey accepted. They all walked until it was dark.They saw a house and when theyreached it they heard noises inside.They were afraid and decided tosing a song to chase away thepeople who were in the house.The horse stood on the ground, thedog climbed onto the horse's back,the cat climbed on the dog's back,and the rooster climbed on the cat'sback. They immediately started singing."Kookoliookoo," sang the rooster."Myaaawuu myaaawuu," sang thecat."Woo woo," sang the dog."Wuuuu wuuuu," sang the horse.They all sang loudly together. Thepeople inside the house werethieves. The thieves were afraid andran away. The old rooster, the dog, the horseand the cat entered the house andfound food. When they had finishedeating they went to sleep. Therooster slept near the door, followedby the cat, the dog, and lastly thehorse. It was not too long before thethieves were back. Their boss wasthe first to go into the house. Hehad just opened the door when theold rooster pecked him with itsbeak.Then the cat scratched him with itsnails. And then he found the dog,which bit him. The man jumped but continued intothe house. He found the horse,which kicked him to death. Theother thieves did not enter thehouse. They ran away, never toreturn. The animals lived happily ever afterin that house. The old rooster toldthe time to his friends, and the dogkept them safe. The cat killed allthe rats in the house, and the horsecarried them on its back whereverthey wanted to go.

Why is the sky blue? It is not always blue. Is it? Why are leaves green? They are not always green. Are they? Why are bananas yellow? Ripe bananas are yellow.Unripe bananas are green. Why are umbrellas black? Not all umbrellas are black. Why is blood red? There is iron in the blood.That makes it red. Why is salt white? I don't know!

Mansha is the only daughter of her parents. Since they both used to work to earn a living, Mansha was brought up by her granny. Granny used to narrate lovely stories to Mansha at night as well as during the day. Due to this, Mansha had developed the habit of dreaming of living a life inspired by nature. One day granny and Mansha were walking in the garden. As Mansha came across beautiful flowers blooming gracefully, she told her granny, " I dream to become like these flowers which are a symbol of love, peace and beauty. I shall symbolize harmony!" Upon reaching home, as she sat by the window she saw the birds flying high up in the sky. She called out to her granny and said, "Granny! I dream to become a bird so that I can fly high up in the sky and touch it!" At night when she was listening to her granny's bed-time story about stars, she jumped up with joy and said, "Granny! I dream to become a star so that I can twinkle and shine bright and spread light everywhere!" Her granny hugged her and said, "You should dream big but for that you got to have a lot of patience and courage to make to dream come true." Mansha replied, "Yes granny! With your guidance and support I shall surely fulfill my dreams." Saying so she hugged her granny and got lost in her world of dreams.

I have lost my bat, and Icannot find it. I looked behind thedoor. It was not there. I looked for it on theshelf. I could not find itthere. I looked for it under thebed. Not there either. I searched inside thebox. There was no signof it. I searched the attic.It was not there. I looked here, there andeverywhere.I could not find itanywhere.

Once upon a time there lived a young girlcalled Mwari. Her parents used to send her to collectfirewood near the forest,but with caution not togo inside the forest for the forest was full ofdangerous animals and ogres. As she looked inside the forest she saw a bigdry log lying on the ground. One day Mwariwent to collect firewood as usual. She took the axe and entered into the forest.As she started cutting the fallen tree intopieces she heard a big sound asking," who istouching my firewood?" Mwari was so scared, she triedto run but the ogre grabbed herby hand. It told her she will make it's lunch meal byboiling in a big pot. Her screams alerted other villagers who hadcome to collect firewood too They ran back to the village andinformed the village warriorswho went to the forest to fightthe ogre. Although many of them wereinjured they managed to rescueher. She learnt her lesson to obeywhat she was told.

Sam the dragon was a flying lighthouse. He showed ships the way back home by breathing out fire. Sam's best friend was called Sar. He was a movie star. He acted in Dragon Breath the movie as a road. But he was not very good at singing. Sam was far away from his parents. He wanted to go home. Toothless was Sam's Doctor. He told Sam to go home to see his parents. Toothless told Sam to follow the square footprints home. On the way home, Sam saw many strange things. Like a Cactus Dragon. He met a girl called Sham. He asked her to help him find his way because he was lost and very sad. She looked at her Dragon Book to look for Sam's parents and find out where they lived. She said 'We have to follow the Dragon Train. Not the square footprints." The Dragon Train went straight to Sam's house. When he saw his father in the sky, Sam felt happy! This is Sam's mother. She is burning food for dinner. She has made Sam's favourite food: pasta. Sam goes back to his job. He is happy now because he has met his parents now.

Mape is a sad ape.Mape's mom sent himaway from home. Mape is very sad.And he will not eat hisbananas. Mape is very tired.But he will not eat hisfruit. Mape fell out a treewhile he was sleeping.He hit the ground.BOOM!!! Everywhere aroundMape the bushes weremoving.Mape did not have theenergy to run away orclimb a tree. Mape was so scared!But then an apple fellfrom a tree. Mape ate the apple.Then he ran and ran,until he could not runanymore. He did not know wherehe was running to.He just knew he had toget away from thebushes! Mape finally got to afield where he couldrest.He ate many fruits toget energy. Mape had a lot ofenergy from eatingfruit.He started to dance. Mape began a dancingshow for all theanimals.Before and after theshow he would alwayseat fruit to get energy. The show was verygood.Even the king of thejungle came to watchthe show. That is how Mapebecame the happy,dancing ape.

It was Nanni's Dodappa's birthday eve. Everyone in the house were busy making preparations for his birthday and our little Nanni was busy chatting with her Dodappa. "Dodappa, what gift would you like to have for your birthday?" Do you want a new shirt? A red car? or a big chocolate? Dodappa smiled and replied "Nanni, I have all of that." Nanni thought and thought, what can I give Dodappa that is special, something that he does not have? Nanni shouted with her eyes wide open "Dodappa, I know what gift I will give you." Dodappa asked curiously "What Nanni?". "I will gift you hair on your head for your birthday" answered Nanni proudly to her balding Dodappa. Dodappa said, "Now that sounds like a great gift, but how will you gift me hair on my head Nanni? Nanni immediately replied "I Know Dodappa I will colour your head with my crayons and it will look like hair". Dodappa with a naughty grin on his face said "Oh! Nanni, but that will wash off when I have a bath". Nanni said "Hmmm.... then I will buy a wig from the market for you". Dodappa noded his head side ways and said "Sorry Nanni, I do not like the idea of a wig either". Nanni was thinking hard now how could she gift Dodappa "hair" on his birthday? Nanni with a serious look on her face replied "I will cut some of my hair and stick it on your head ". Dodappa said "That is sweet of you Nanni, but I would like to have my own hair on my head". Nanni pondered and said "Dodappa, Dodappa, you know what, I got an idea. I will cut your moustache hair and plant it on your head". "Just like Amma, Amma plants the little plants in our garden which after some time grows into big trees ". Dodappa had a hearty laugh HA HA HA... still laughing he said "Nanni, your thought of giving me a headfull of hair - that is the funniest birthday gift I have ever got. Thank you my dear Nanni".Will Dodappa's hair grow then? Nanni is still wondering. What would you do to grow Dodappa's hair back?

The name of my dog isStopie. Stopie likes to bark atnight. Stopie has two puppies. Stopie's young puppylikes to steal food in thekitchen. The other puppy hasthree legs. The three dogs barksduring the day and atnight.

Every morning, Natasha's parents would awaken her brother, Karan, and her. Natasha would hurry up all her morning chores and get dressed for school. Natasha loved going to school! Here she got to meet all her friends. Her friends didn't share the same enthusiasm though, because Natasha was quite meddlesome. Often in her excitement to reach school, Natasha would be the first one there. This gave her a chance to snoop around. One such day, she picked up a personal diary. "Nosy Natasha! Why on earth would Rohan call me that?", she cried out as she looked up from Rohan's diary, "I thought we were friends". She marched to his house. "Rohan, why do you call me Nosy Natasha in your diary? That is so untrue" cried Natasha. Rohan replied, "Isn't that ironic? You just read my personal diary!" "Oh I get it now", she replied, "I was being rather nosy reading your personal diary. I just did an IRONY!" She apologized for her behavior and promised never to do it again. That evening, Natasha told her mom of the two lessons she had learnt. She now knew not to touch other people's things without permission and what 'irony" meant.

How many cats?0Zero cats. How many cats?1One cat. How many cats?2Two cats. How many cats?3Three cats. How many cats?4Four cats. How many cats?5Five cats. How many cats?6Six cats. How many cats?7Seven cats. How many cats?8Eight cats. What's this we see?A kitten is stuck in a tree!"I will rescue you! "Mama, can we keep him? Just one more."How many cats?9Nine cats.

Reeti's holidays have begun. But Reeti isn't happy. She doesn't like holidays. She likes going to school!In school Reeti has lots of friends. At home she has no one to play with. She has a Papa who brings her toys and books and tells her stories. Reeti likes that. Her Papa does yoga every morning. Reeti likes that too and tries to imitate him. She has a Mummy who writes poetry and works on a computer. Reeti likes looking at the computer with Mummy.She also likes looking at Mummy's tummy! Mummy's tummy is getting big and round. Because there is a baby in it.“Soon you'll have a little brother or sister to play with,” says Mummy. Reeti likes that. But right now, she has no one to play with. Not one of her friends lives close by. Then one evening the doorbell rings. Their neighbour Das Uncle is standing outside holding a bright-green parrot in a black cage.“We are leaving town,” says Das Uncle. “Would you like to have our Mithu as a pet? He can talk!”Papa and Mummy look at each other. They don't think birds should be in cages. But Reeti is very excited. “Yes, Uncle!” she says, with a big smile. And so Mithu becomes Reeti's new friend. “Hello Mithu!” says Reeti.Mithu looks at her. “Hello!” he says. “Hello!”Reeti is thrilled. “What's your name?” she asks.“Hello,” says the parrot.“No,” says Reeti. “Your name is Mithu. Say Mithu.”“Hello,” says Mithu. “No! No!” says Reeti, shaking her head. “Let's try again. My name is Reeti. Mithu, listen carefully. My name is Reeti. What is my name?”“Hello,” says Mithu.“NO!” Reeti laughs. “Mithu, you are a naughty boy!”Every day Reeti tries to teach Mithu new words. “Say Pa-pa. Say Mum-my. Say Ree-ti.”But all Mithu says is, “Hel-lo.” One day, Mummy takes Reeti across town to her friend's birthday party. Reeti meets all her friends and enjoys herself. She brings back a piece of birthday cake for Mithu. BUT – where is he?“Mummy, where's Mithu?” cries Reeti, running from room to room.“I don't know,” says Mummy. “But don't worry. We'll find him.” Just then Papa walks in, with Mithu in his cage.“Hello!” says Mithu.“I took your friend to the park for some fresh air,” says Papa.Reeti is so relieved! She gives Mithu the birthday cake. But he doesn't like it. Just as Reeti's holidays are coming to an end, a flock of green parrots come flying to the big tree outside her window. They are all squawking and talking loudly. Mithu goes mad inside his cage, which Reeti has now placed near the window. He squawks, he jumps up and down and spreads his wings.Reeti watches. “Are they your friends, Mithu?” she asks.Mithu doesn't answer. He only looks at the parrots on the tree. As swiftly as they had come, the parrots fly away.“What were they saying, Mithu?” Reeti asks.“Hello,” says Mithu sadly. “Hello.” Reeti's holidays are over.It is the first day of school. Reeti meets all her friends and teachers. During the lunch break she plays happily with her friends.The big trees around the school playground are full of twittering birds. When Reeti reaches home after school, she sees Mithu sitting quietly in his cage.“Hello, Mithu,” she whispers. He looks at her but doesn't say anything. Reeti puts down her schoolbag. She opens the window. Then she opens the door of the cage.“Go, Mithu!” she says. “Go and find your friends.”He looks at her. “Go, Mithu!” she says again. “Fly away!” Mithu steps out of his cage. He looks at Reeti one last time. And with a final “hello”, he spreads his wings and flies away to join his friends. ### Who Needs A Pet?Anyone who wants a loving and loyal friend needs a pet. If you're feeling lonely and lost or mean and mad, a pet is sure to do something... anything to make you glad. A pet will play with you, make you feel better, teach you lots of important things, and bring endless fun into your life. Now, who doesn't want that?### Should You Have A Pet Or Not?Sure, pets are fun, but don't rush out to get one! Think carefully:- Will your parents let you keep a pet?- Do you really want a pet? Remember, a pet is for life. It is not a toy you can throw away once you get bored with it.- Pets need food, clean water, exercise, and love. They also have to be trained, taken to the vet, and given baths. That means extra work, every single day. Do you have the time for that?- Can you forgive your pet if it makes a mess with its muddy paws, or chews your favourite shoes? ### Am I Really Ready For A Pet?Your best friend has a pet, and you wish you had one too! So you're wondering whether you should get a dog, a cat, or maybe, even a rat. Stop right there, before you pick a pet, and ask yourself these questions.Do I have the time to take care of a pet?Having a pet is a h-u-g-e responsibility. Whether it is for training, feeding or plain loving, you've got to spend time on your pet – big time!### Do I Have Space At Home For A Pet?Small pets like cats, fish and birds can adapt to houses of any size. But dogs may need more space to run around and exercise. ### What Kind Of Pet Do I Want?If you want a specific kind of pet, talk to a vet or to people who own similar pets. Find out what they eat and how they behave. Then think hard about whether the pet will suit you.### Can I Afford To Have A Pet?All pets require food and shelter. Then, there are the visits to the vet for check-ups, vaccinations, and for treatment when the pet falls ill.### Will A Pet Be Welcome At Home?You may love animals, but do the rest of the family share your feelings? You need to talk this through with your family before you get a pet.

Many lifetimes ago, on a rather warm, snuggly night, a dinosaur egg was on the brink of hatching. The Mama long neck lay close, watching and waiting.A little wriggly crack appears on the egg and out pops the little one. Mama, with all the sweetness in her voice, calls her 'tiny foot!''It's really hot and dry here, Mama!', Tiny foot exclaimed. Every beautiful thing was destroyed because of the earthquake. Tiny foot and Mama decided to look-out for a new land. And so, they began their journey in search of marvellous new places.One day, they arrive at a splendid, glorious place that was dressed in lush green trees, fruits, flowers. There was an explosion of colour everywhere which knocked their breaths of. Tiny foot screeched, 'This is amazing. Look at all that food, Mama. Can we please live here?' 'All right little woman, we sure will. But first, we need to keep our eyes peeled for our herd of dinosaurs.''What's that?''That is a group, Tiny foot. Dinosaurs that look alike; travel together, stay together. They form a herd. We have so many different dinosaurs, my tiny one. And so we have different herd for different dinosaurs.''So would we be keeping an eye out for a herd of long necks?''Exactly, smart you!'And so, they carried about venturing into the deeper parts of the forest. Exploring can be such fun and a joy.But little did they know of the velociraptors picking their trail. Velociraptors are little dinosaurs but don't be fooled by their size. They are meat-eaters. And these ones, in particular, have been hunting since morning. And their search has now come to an end. 'There goes our lunch!', one of the wicked raptors squawk. They race ahead and leap right in front of the long necks. Tiny foot squeals and backs off. Mama is all set to defend her little one.Mid way through the fight, one of the raptors grab hold of Mama's leg. She wails in pain.But soon enough, they all pause for now they hear the thundering feet of a galloping Club-tail; also known as an Ankylosaurus.She charges forward, then sharply swings her club-tail at the raptor with its teeth clamped on Mama, and gives a hard whack on his face. He flings in the air, out of sight. Watching this, the other raptor dashes off for cover.You wouldn't want to mess up with an Ankylosaurus. It's body is covered in spikes and a heavy tail to boot! Well armoured, this one!'Thank you for saving our lives'.'Oh, it's nothing dear. I always come in handy in these parts', Club-tail bellows with laughter. 'Are you new here? I haven't seen you around in these parts''Oh yes, we are. We just got here two days ago', answers Mama. 'So then I'll show you around to folks of your kind and many more.''How marvellous of you! I'm already beginning to like you', smiles Mama.And so they tagged along with Club-tail till they reached a stunning valley with flowing waters and colourful leaves covering them.Mama and Tiny foot got along with their herd and some of the other herds of dinosaurs.Under that starry night, when all was calm and quiet, Tiny foot with droopy yet sparkling eyes, said, 'I'm happy here, Mama. I've made some friends. But some of them look really different from me.''I'm glad too, Tiny foot. I've met some lovely dinosaurs as well. Some of them do appear different. But I like that. It makes them more interesting and exciting', Mama said with a gleam in her eyes.They've finally found their happy place.

Once upon a time,there was a manwalking in the bush.Suddenly he met aLion! The Lion was resting inthe short winter grass. The meeting was sosudden that the mandid not know what todo.He was full of fear. At first, the Lion wassurprised too, and alittle afraid.But there was a lowrumble in his stomach,because he was hungry. The man suddenlyfound himself up a talltree.He began to shout atthe Lion. The Lion lay downunder the tree, waitingfor his meal.As time went on, theLion fell asleep, or so itseemed. Soon the man fellasleep.Then he woke up again.Finally he dozed off andwent fast asleep. But then he crasheddown on the sleepingLion! They both woke upconfused andfrightened.The lion forgot his mealand ran for his life. The man began to runin the same directionas the Lion.Then he realized thathe was running with theLion! So he changed directionand escaped beingeaten by the Lion!

Hello! My name is Nanu. I am waiting with my mother for ataxi. We are going home. Here I am standing in line. My mother sings me a song."Come Mr Taxi can't you see? We are waiting, Nanu and me!" The lady next to me is taking her chickens home. They willlay eggs for her to eat. These men are coming back from work. They smile at me. Ihear them sing, "Hey little Nanu, don't you worry. Taxi'scoming in a hurry." A lady walks past. She is a very smart lady. Aren't her shoesbeautiful? They go "click, click, click...click, click, click..."when she walks. This man is selling cold drinks. I love cold drinks. They are socold and sweet. Do you like them? Look! There are ladies taking their supper home on theirheads. Aren't they clever? That lady is having her hair done. She is going out with herfriends tonight. I am tired now. My mother puts me on her back where I canrest. She sings, "Please Mr Taxi, don't be late, Gogo iswaiting at our gate." There is my friend Tumi. He is also resting. We will be homesoon. High up there the birds are flying home. They must get homebefore it is dark. This lady has beautiful earrings. I think she bought them intown today. When I grow up I will buy many earrings for meand my mother. My mother is getting tired now. I sing her a song, "Please MrTaxi, won't you come, we are waiting, me and mum." Wait! I can hear the taxi! Here it comes!!! This is our big red taxi. It has come to take me and mymother home. I am very happy! Goodbye!!!

Shriya was the only child to her parents.Her neighborhood had no kids. Shriya felt bored. Her dad felt sorry for Shriya.He decided to cheer her up by bringing her a pet parrot.Shriya was very happy. Shriya would spend as much time with her parrot.She named her 'Piyali'.She would wave Piyali 'Bye' and then only leave for school.She would greet Piyali with a 'Hi' when she got back from school. Days passed.Shriya noticed that Piyali was very dull. She did not respond to Shriya's 'Hi's and 'Bye's.Shriya wanted to help Piyali but did not know how. She asked Piyali"O Piyali. Why do you look sad these days?""Don't you not like our home?"To her surprise Piyali replied"No. I do like it here but I miss my family. I miss my friends/"Shriya asked Piyali "But are we not your family?"Piyali replied "Yes. But I like to be with my mother and father. Tell me Shriya, will you be able to live away from your amma and appa?"Shriya replied "Definitely No".Piyali replied "See. I can't too. I want to go and live with my family." Shriya could not sleep that night.Next morning, when she woke up, she went straight to the balcony where Piyali's cage was hung.She opened the cage and set Piyali free, saying "Go home Piyali. Go back to your amma and appa. Go back to your friends. But do not forget me. Do visit me."Piyali was very happy. She turned towards Shriya, waved her a Bye and said "Thank you Shriya. We will be friends forever. I will visit you often." As Shriya watched from her balcony, Piyali flew up and up high in the air.She joined her amma, her appa and her friends who were waiting for her all these days. And they all soared up and up high inthe sky with Piyali leading them.Piyali squealed in glee. Shriya felt so happy that she set Piyali free and now Piyali was happily living, flying, squealing with her parents, and her friends.Shriya realised that she needed to be go to the park and make new friends and not feel bored anymore.So from then on, Shriya and her friends went to the park regularly to play, sing and dance and also hoping that Piyali and her friends would visit them some day.- The End -

There was once a girl named Lilly. She was 7 years old. Her father's name was Tirth. He bought a new parrot for Lilly because it was her birthday. One day when Lilly was feeding Yuri. Yuri suddenly spat the food out of his mouth and started chirping harshly at Lilly. Lilly was astonished that Yuri could also behave in such a bad manner being such an honorable parrot. So Lilly asked Yuri, "what is the matter, Yuri?". The reply in return was "since you are not taking me outside in the fresh air , I feel bored sitting in one place." "I am so sorry. I cannot take you out right now" says, Lilly as she leaves for school. In school, at the time of recess, Lilly is playing with her friends in the playground. And Yuri was getting bored at home. At this point Lilly realizes that "I am playing here with my friends and having so much, Yuri is lonely without any friends. I am so mean." When she gets back home, she is embarassed that she did not take Yuri out to play with his friends. Seeing Yuri upset, Lilly tried to talk to him. But Yuri was not willing to talk to her. Now Yuri was getting angrier moment by moment. The next step taken by Yuri was to flap his feathers vigorously and try to fly away with the cage. Lilly's neighbour saw Yuri falling down from the window, he picked him up and brought him back to Lilly. And Lilly decided to set him free because she realized that friends and family were important to everyone and so Yuri must be with his friends and family. Yuri was ecstatic and overjoyed to be with his family and friends in the fresh and open air.

Long time ago, there were four little friends namely: Joel, Jonah, Job and Jacob. They were studying at Busolwe primary school. The boys used to go to school with out taking tea. They used to feel sleepy at school all the because of hunger. One day, they decided to go to to a nearby trading center called gampe and look for something to eat. After crossing to a nearby trading center, they saw a bigger banana bunch in a box at the veranda. The boys whispered at each other hahahaaaaa ...... we have been very hungry but......, said Jonah. All ran to the veranda. picked up some bananas from the box, smiled and started eating. Do you know what they forgot to do? While eating, the owner of the bananas came walking in bigger strides. "Who has given you my bananas?" asked the man. As soon as they heard that voice, the boys ran as fast as they could and hid somewhere. They said to each other that no laughing, no coughing and no talking. The owner of the bananas made an alarm, "wulululululua, here are the thieves." The boys were arrested, taken to school, called their parents, the teachers, and the school children to gather. The boys were given a punishment. Each got some ten strokes and repented not to steal anything again.

Mzi lives in a thatched house. Thulani lives in a square house. This house is a rectangle. The roof of this house is a triangle. This man is building his own house. This house is new. This house is old. I wish I lived in this house.

Two best friends , Gini and Jojo along with their beloved doggie , Tommy, return home from school complaining about the food they got , as usual . They heard a tree calling them . They ran towards the tree . Mr. Talking tree , was a 50 year old magical wise tree, living in Alpha town . He heard them talking to each other and decides to teach them how to appreciate their meals . Mr. Talking Tree decided to give them different variety of food items to taste . The first thing he gave them was 'Coconut water' , they found it to be very 'sweet' and 'refreshing' .Then he gave them 'imli' which was very 'sour' . Next he gave them a cup of 'coffee' . They found that to be 'bitter' but energizing .Then he gave them a bowl of 'dal', which they enjoyed very much . Gini and Jojo , realised that every food item has its own different taste and must be appreciated . They go back home promising never to complain about the food they get at school or even what thier mom cooks at home .

Once upon a time there was a girl. Her name was Ananya.She was happy when her friends came to her house for Diwali. So she decorated the house and burst crackers.And her mom and dad told her "You burst crackers carefully."The End

Every morning Hilifa woke up early to prepare breakfast for his mother. She had been sick a lot recently and Hilifa was learning how to look after his mother and himself. When his mother was too ill to get up he would make a fire to boil water to make tea. He would take tea to his mother and prepare porridge for breakfast. Sometimes his mother was too weak to eat it. Hilifa worried about his mother. His father had died two years ago, and now his mother was ill too. She was very thin, just like his father had been. One morning he asked his mother, "What is wrong Mum? When will you be better? You don't cook anymore. You can't work in the field or clean the house. You don't prepare my lunchbox, or wash my uniform..." "Hilifa my son, you are only nine years old and you take good care of me." She looked at the young boy, wondering what she should tell him. Would he understand? "I am very ill. You have heard on the radio about the disease called AIDS. I have that disease," she told him. Hilifa was quiet for a few minutes. "Does that mean you will die like Daddy?" "There is no cure for AIDS." Hilifa walked to school thoughtfully. He couldn't join in the chatter and games of his friends as they walked along. "What's wrong?" they asked him. But Hilifa couldn't answer, his mother's words were ringing in his ears, "No cure. No cure." How could he look after himself if his mother died, he worried. Where would he live? Where would he get money for food? Hilifa sat at his desk. He traced the worn wood markings with his finger, "No cure. No cure." "Hilifa? Hilifa, are you with us?" Hilifa looked up. Ms. Nelao was standing over him. "Stand up Hilifa! What was my question?" Hilifa looked down at his feet. "You won't find the answer down there!" she retorted. "Magano, tell Hilifa the answer." Hilifa felt so ashamed, Ms. Nelao had never shouted at him before. Hilifa struggled through the morning. At break time he sat in the classroom. "I have a stomach ache," he lied to his friends. It wasn't a big lie, he did feel sick, and his worried thoughts buzzed inside his head like angry bees. Ms. Nelao watched him quietly. She asked him what was wrong. "Nothing," he replied. Her ears heard the tiredness and worry in his voice. Her eyes saw the fear he was trying so hard to hide. When Hilifa tried to do his maths the numbers jumped around in his head. He couldn't keep them still long enough to count them. He soon gave up. He thought of his mother instead. His fingers began to draw his thoughts. He drew his mother in her bed. He drew himself standing beside his mother's grave. "Maths monitors, collect all the books please," called Ms. Nelao. Hilifa suddenly saw the drawings in his book and tried to tear out the page, but it was too late. The monitor took his book to Ms. Nelao. Ms. Nelao looked at Hilifa's drawings. When the children were leaving to go home she called, "Come here Hilifa. I want to talk to you." "What's wrong?" she asked him gently. "My mother is ill. She told me she has AIDS. Will she die?" "I don't know, Hilifa, but she is very ill if she has AIDS. There is no cure." Those words again, "No cure. No cure." Hilifa began to cry. "Go home, Hilifa," she said. "I will come and visit your mother." Hilifa went home and found his mother preparing lunch. "I've cooked for you today, Hilifa, but now I am very tired. Look after the vegetable garden and take some tomatoes to the shop. They will sell them for us." After lunch Hilifa went to the vegetable plot. He looked at the bright colours of the vegetables, bright red tomatoes and chillies, long green beans and dark green spinach, the green leaves of the sweet potato and tall golden maize. He watered the garden and picked a bag full of ripe red tomatoes to take to the shop. "What would happen to their garden if his mother died?" he wondered. Ms. Nelao arrived soon after Hilifa left. She spent a long time talking to his mother. She asked Hilifa's mother, "Meme Ndapanda, are you taking the medicine for AIDS?" "After my husband died I was too ashamed to go to the doctor," she told Ms. Nelao. "I kept hoping I wasn't infected. When I became ill and went to the doctor she told me it was too late. The medicine would not help me." Ms. Nelao told Meme Ndapanda what to do to help Hilifa. When Hilifa came home his mother asked him, "Hilifa, my son, I want to take a walk with you. Will you help me?" Hilifa took his mother's arm and she leaned on him. They walked to where the tall thorn trees grew. She asked him, "Do you remember playing football here with your cousin Kunuu? You kicked the ball into the tree and it got stuck on the thorns. Your father got scratched getting it down for you." "Look, there's an omandjembere bush. Go and pick some to take home." When Hilifa was picking the sweet berries, she said, "Do you remember when you were small you ate the berries and the seed inside. You didn't go to the toilet for a week!" "Yes, my stomach was sooo sore," remembered Hilifa, laughing. When they got home Hilifa's mother was very tired. Hilifa made some tea. Meme Ndapanda took a small box from under her bed. "Hilifa, this is for you. In this box are things that will help you remember where you come from." She took the mementos out of the box one by one. "This is a photo of your father holding you. You were his firstborn son. This photo is when I took you to see your grandparents, they were so happy. This is the first tooth you lost. Do you remember how you cried and I had to promise you that more would grow. This is the brooch your father gave me when we were married for one year." Hilifa held the box and began to cry. His mother held him close by her side and said a prayer, "May the Lord protect you and keep you safe." She held him as she spoke. "Hilifa, my son. You know that I am very ill, and soon I will be with your father. I don't want you to be sad. Remember how much I love you. Remember how much your father loved you." His mother continued, "Uncle Kave from Oshakati sends us money when he can. He told me that he will care for you. I have talked to him about it. You'll go to school with Kunuu, his son. Kunuu is in Grade 4 like you. They will take good care of you." "I like Uncle Kave and Aunt Muzaa," said Hilifa. "And I like playing with Kunuu. Would you become well if they look after you?" "No, my son. I won't become well. You look after me very well. I am proud to have such a good son." The next morning at school Ms. Nelao taught them about HIV and AIDS. The learners looked afraid. They heard about this illness on the radio, but no-one spoke about it at home. "Where does it come from?" asked Magano. "How do we catch it?" asked Hidipo. Ms. Nelao explained that HIV is the name of a virus. When a person has the HIV virus in their blood they still look healthy. "We say they have AIDS when they become ill." Ms. Nelao explained some of the ways we can be infected with HIV. "If someone has HIV or AIDS we can catch the virus from their blood. We should never share razors or toothbrushes. If we get our ears pierced we must use sterilised blades and needles." She explained how needles and blades should be sterilised. "If we hurt ourselves and there is blood we must ask an adult to clean the wound. We must cover the wound to protect it," she told them. Then she showed them a chart. "These are all the ways you can't catch HIV," she told them. "You won't get HIV from using the toilet, or sharing a bath. Hugging, kissing or shaking hands with someone with HIV or AIDS is also safe. It's OK to share cups and plates with someone who has HIV or AIDS. And you can't catch it from someone who is coughing or sneezing. Also, you can't get it from mosquitoes or other biting insects like lice or bedbugs." "What do you do if you've got it?" asked Magano. "Well, you must take care of yourself and eat lots of healthy food. Look at our food chart," she said. "Who can remember what food is good for you?" she asked. When Hilifa got home he told his mother what he had learned at school that day. "Ms. Nelao told us about HIV and AIDS and how to look after someone who's ill. Magano and Hidipo are going to help me with my chores and we will do our homework together," he told her. That afternoon Magano came and helped Hilifa to fetch water. Hidipo helped him to gather firewood. Then they sat and did their homework in the shade of the marula tree. Ms. Nelao had also told Hilifa's neighbours that he was looking after his mother. They had promised to help him. Every night a different neighbour came with hot food for them to eat. Hilifa always gave them some vegetables from the garden. On the last day of the school term Hilifa was very happy. He ran home to show his mother his report card. He ran into the yard calling, "Mum. Mum. Look at my report card. I have got ‘A', ‘A', and more ‘A's'." Hilifa found his mother lying in bed. "Mum!" he called. "Mum! Wake up!" She didn't wake up. Hilifa ran to the neighbours. "My Mum. My Mum. She won't wake up," he cried. The neighbours went home with Hilifa and found Meme Ndapanda in her bed. "She is dead, Hilifa," they said sadly. Very quickly the news spread that Meme Ndapanda was dead. The house was full of family, neighbours and friends. They prayed for Hilifa's mother and sang hymns. They talked about all the good things they knew about her. Aunt Muzaa cooked for all the visitors. Uncle Kave told Hilifa that they would take him back to Oshakati after the funeral. His Grandfather told him stories about his mother when she was a little girl. At the funeral Hilifa went to the front of the church and told everyone about his mother. "My mother loved me and looked after me very well. She told me to study hard so that I could get a good job. She wanted me to be happy. I will study hard and work hard so that she can be proud of me." After the funeral Uncle Kave and Aunt Muzaa helped Hilifa to pack his things to take to Oshakati. "Kunuu is looking forward to having a new friend," they told him. "We will care for you like our own son." Hilifa said goodbye to the house and got into the taxi with them.

"What is it you are thinking of Madhu?" asked Gowri Miss.Miss Gowri was the 1st Grade Class Teacher. She taught English. Every child in 1st Grade liked her a lot."I had a dream yesterday night. I was thinking about it.""Interesting. What did you dream about?" asked Gowri Miss."I saw you flying like a bird in my dream." replied Madhu."Oh. That's nice. Did I fly well? What was the color of my wings?" asked Gowri Miss."You had white wings." replied Madhu."That's nice. What else did you dream of dear?" asked Gowri Miss. "I had a dream that I am flying an aeroplane." replied Madhu."Interesting. Do you like Aeroplanes that much?" asked Gowri Miss."I love aeroplanes. I like to see them flying in the air. I want to fly an aeroplane every day." said Madhu."Awesome. You need to be a pilot for that." "Yes. I want to be a Pilot when I grow up." "I will learn to take off the Aeroplane." "I will learn to use the buttons properly." quipped Madhu in excitement."Madhu. Do you know where these buttons are found in the aeroplane?" asked Gowri Miss."Yes Miss. The buttons and controls are found in the Cockpit. The pilots sit in the Cockpit too. Amma and Appa have told me all about it and even taken me once there." replied Madhu."Oh. That's nice. Where do you want to fly to?" asked Gowri Miss. "I want to fly to Delhi." replied Madhu."Why Delhi?" asked Gowri Miss."Because my amma told me that it is very far. I can fly along with the birds for a long time then." replied Madhu. "I want to fly near the clouds." I want to fly as high as the birds." continued Madhu."I am so proud of you, Madhu. I wish your dreams come true one day." said Gowri Miss."Thank You Gowri Miss." replied Madhu.Hi friends,This is Madhu here.My dream is to be a Pilot.What is your dream to be?Do tell me.Bye-Bye for now.-MadhuAuthor's Note--------------------It is very easy for the kids to learn the concept of Nouns - Proper and Common and Verbs when they get to see/read them in/from a book.In this short story, the Proper Nouns are in Bold, while the Common Nouns are in Italics.The few verbs which are used in this story are Underlined.Not all nouns and verbs are addressed with these notations. I have just highlighted very few.

It was a bright sunny Sunday afternoon. The young girls in Lusese were gathering under the branches of the biggest Musikili tree in Caprivi. The excited buzz of their voices was heard all over the village. They called their friends. "Nakamwu, I'm waiting for you." "Hurry up, Chaze." "Silume! Come on!" Maria looked around for Ntwala. Ntwala took them swimming every Sunday. "Ntwala! Ntwalee! Ntwalaaa! Ntwaloo!" she called. Ntwala shouted from the other side of the village, "I'm here! I'm waiting for you." All the girls ran to find her. "Are you ready to go swimming today?" Ntwala asked them. "Yes," they shouted happily as they hopped and jumped with excitement. As they walked to the river Ntwala told them stories. "Tell us about when our village was flooded," they called. "Tell us about the Jackal and the Baboon." Beside the river there was an enormous Marula tree. The girls looked for the biggest marula fruit for Ntwala. "I've got the biggest," shouted Joy. She gave her marula fruit to Ntwala. "Off you go and swim," said Ntwala to the girls. They all ran into the water, shrieking and giggling as they felt the cold water of the Zambezi River. Ntwala stood on the bank. She watched for crocodiles. She watched the older girls racing and diving. She watched the younger girls splashing and learning to swim. "Competition time," she shouted at last. "Stand in a line." She picked up the biggest marula fruit. She threw it as far as she could into the water. "One, two, three. GO!" she called. The children ran into the water and swam to the marula fruit. Ntwala watched them. "I'm first!" shouted Maria and Chaze at the same time. "You are both first," called Ntwala. "I want to race again," said Maria. "OK!" said Chaze. "Can we, Ntwala?" asked the other girls. "Stand in line again," Ntwala told them. She picked up a marula fruit and threw it as far as she could. "One, two, three. GO!" she called. The children ran into the water and swam to the marula fruit. Ntwala watched them. "I'm first!" shouted Chaze. Maria stopped swimming. "Chaze is the winner," said Ntwala. "Well done, Chaze. Let's go home now." The children walked home with Ntwala. "Tell us a story, Ntwala," they asked. They loved to listen to her stories. Maria crept up behind Chaze and pushed her to the ground. Chaze started to cry. "Chaze's mother will beat you," said Joy to Maria. "Maria! Why did you hit Chaze?" asked Ntwala. "She won at swimming. It's not fair," Maria said. Ntwala asked all the girls to sit in a circle. "What did the principal tell us?" she asked. "It's bad to fight. People who fight must be punished," said Nakamwu. "Maria must say sorry," said Namasiku. "Chaze must hit her back," said Joy. "No, it is wrong to hit each other," said Ntwala. Ntwala said, "I think Maria should miss swimming next Sunday." Maria cried a flood of tears. "I... I... I'm sorry Chaze. I'm sorry I hit you. I'll never hit anyone again," she apologised. "I forgive you," said Chaze and put her arm around Maria. "Maria and I will come home with you," said Ntwala to Chaze. "Maria will apologise to your mother too." Maria told Chaze's mother, "I hit Chaze because she won the race. I'm sorry. Chaze is my friend, it was bad to hit her." Mrs. Sibungo listened to Maria. "That was wrong Maria, it is bad to hit people. Thank you for apologising to me. I forgive you." Mrs. Sibungo told Ntwala, "You are a good leader." Mrs. Sibungo spoke to all the children. "Ntwala thought of a good punishment for Maria. She hit Chaze because she lost the swimming race. Now she will not be able to race." "But Mum," Chaze smiled, "I don't want Maria to stay at home next Sunday. I want to race her at the swimming next week too!"

Rini, Neha and Rupa are three friends. Rini and Neha are twins and Rupa's mother is the elder sister of Rini and Neha, so Rini and Neha are actually Rupa's 'mausis'. But Rini and Neha are only one year older than Rupa and they are close friends.Rini and Neha live in Murshidabad a town in West Bengal. They go to a village school, Rupa lives in a big city Kolkata and goes to a school there. The friends would very much love to be together but cannot because of school. So they eagerly wait for their summer vacation. When the schools close on summer vacation, Rupa and her family of father, mother, brother and sister will take the train to travel to their ancestral home in the town of Murshidabad, where the twins live.Murshidabad is a small town famous in West Bengal for the palace of Siraj Ud Daulla known all over as Hazar Duari. (thousand doors) The river Ganges flows by the river. The streets are wide and tree lined and the summer sun plays a glittering game of light and shade on the beautiful streets by the river and the town as a whole. Rupa feels excited about meeting her friends. There are lots of things to talk about, which is pent up in the last six months and of course she thought of all the games they play. She was so quiet sitting in a corner in the train, her mom was worried and asked her if she was feeling well. Rupa gave a broad smile and said she is quite alright and only thinking about Rini and Neha.They reached in the evening, she met Rini and Neha, they had so much to talk about, so many rooms to roam around and so many people to hug.There was her grandmother, and grandfather who greeted her with big kisses and a plate full of rasgullas. Then she met all her aunts and told them about her days in school. Finally the three friends took their dinner and went to a room, huddled together and went to sleep. They had already agreed that they would get up early in the morning and visit the fishes in the pond. This is how Rupa's vacation with her close friends started.Her vacation means playing all through the morning after breakfast of parathas and alu bhaji. They will stop playing only when they feel hungry. After their lunch they would try to continue playing while their parents would insist that they get some rest. They would agree to rest only if their grandmother will tell them a story. They will fall asleep listening to grand-mother's fairy tale.In the afternoon grandfather would call them aloud to take them to their farm. they would play in the farm with other children. grandfather would take them through the lush green fields of rice, pulses and mustard. They would play there along with the children of the farmers. by evening grandfather would bundle them up in his jeep and bring them back home. At home grandma would soak a brass bucket full of mangoes cut at the tips. when the children are back grandma would slice the mangoes and hand them over to the children. they will eat to their hearts content.Ma will then call Rupa and the rest of the children for studies. they would study under her mother's guidance. after studies they would sit in the verandah for their dinner. they would sit on the ground on top of mats and food would be served by the aunties. Rupa would be so happy that she would not notice how the days passed by and it would be time to return to school in Calcutta.It so happened that the day to go back arrived. The family got ready and it was time to leave for the station. Everybody got into the jeep, when Rupa's ma noticed that Rupa was missing . Everybody started looking for Rupa calling out her name. Rini and Neha started running into all rooms looking for her, but she could not be found anywhere. Rupa's mother started crying and nobody knew what could be done. It is already 1 O" clock in the afternoon. It is getting late as they were supposed to catch the 2 O'clock train to Calcutta and they cannot possibly leave Rupa behind. Rupa's father said "we will wait for Rupa and we will not go today". the family trouped back into the house and everybody started looking for Rupa in earnest.Suddenly Rini found Rupa peeping out from behind the cowshed. She asked Rini 'Is it 2 O clock yet?'Then as the clock struck 2 she came out of her hiding place. Rini asked Rupa 'why are you hiding?' Rupa said "I dont want to go. I want to stay another day. I hid to miss the train. Rini held Rupa's hand and took her to the kitchen where everybody was. Seeing Rupa everybody jumped up asking questions and there was quite a lot of commotion. Rupa's mom started scolding her and crying at the same time. Rupa's father sat in a corner and didn't say a word. Rupa was feeling sorry and stood in a corner with her head bowed down. Rini could not help herself she blurted out 'why are you all scolding her she just wanted to stay another day.' Hearing that Rupa's mother pulled Rupa in and hugged her. Rupa's father said 'go and enjoy another day, we will go tomorrow, but next time don't hide, tell us if you want another day to stay.'

It’s Saturday and Rico is going to town with his mother. He likes going to town. Town is exciting! There are lots of things to see. Rico holds his mother’s hand very tightly. Streams of people are passing by. There are stalls selling beautiful handmade crafts. There are small giraffes carved out of wood, chameleons and lizards made out of wire and coloured beads, and jewellery made from ostrich egg shell. Then he hears it! Someone is whistling the sweet melody of ‘Amazing Grace.’ He stops to listen. Where is it coming from? “I’ve never heard anyone whistle so beautifully before,” he thinks to himself. He makes his way through the people. Then he sees the man who is whistling. People are putting coins into a small tin in front of him.But ... something is wrong ... The whistling man is not looking at the people. He is not looking at the money. He is not looking at anything. He’s searching for the coins in the tin and putting them into his pocket. Rico stares at the whistling man and thinks, “Maybe he’s blind.”Rico has never seen a blind person before. He feels scared. He grabs his mother’s dress and asks softly, “Mommy, is that man blind?” She takes his hand. “Yes,” she answers, “yes, he’s blind. Look, he has a white stick. Many blind people carry a white stick. He uses this stick to feel for holes and other obstacles.” “But how did he come to town? How did he find his way through all the people?” Rico asks. His mother tells him, “Maybe he has someone who helps him to find his way around. We call that person a guide.” They walk to the zoopark. The traffic lights change to green, the cars stop and the pedestrians cross the street. “Look at the green light. When it is green we can see it is safe to cross the road. In some countries there is also a beeping sound,” Rico’s mother says. “When blind people hear the beeping, they know it is safe to cross the road.” They sit on the green grass of the zoopark and watch the people walking by.“Some blind people have a guide dog,” his mother says. “These dogs are trained to guide their owner, but they are very expensive. There are very few guide dogs in Namibia.” “The blind man can’t watch TV,” Rico says.“He can hear the TV and radio,” Rico’s mother tells him. “Blind people can often hear things much better than people who can see.” “But he can’t read books or newspapers,” says Rico.“There are books written in Braille. Instead of words printed with ink, there are raised dots which make letters. It’s like a code.” “How can he read if he can’t see?”“He reads with his hands. He feels the raised dots with his fingers, just like you see the letters with your eyes.” Rico is amazed to think that people who are blind can do everyday things; things like walking around in town, like whistling songs, like reading. His mother tells him, “The only difference between you and a blind person is that you can see and a blind person can’t see.”“I can see, but I can’t whistle as beautifully as that blind man,” Rico smiles.

On the rose bush, Anty, the little black ant was playing with her friends. She caught hold of a leaf and climbed down. Some of her friends called her ‘brave' while some whispered ‘she is mad'.Anty reached the edge of the leaf and looked up. All appeared upside down. She could see only the bobbing heads of her friends.Delighted, she raised her head higher and cupped her hands to shout, “Hurray!”She lost balance and fell straight down. Her head spinning, in fright, she shut her eyes tightly.Anty fell on a ball of fur and opened her eyes slowly. Brown hair was spread all over. Wondering where she was, she parted strands of hair and peeked out. A black long stick grabbed her instantly.“You silly ant, you spoiled my sleep,” growled Browny, the squirrel.He threatened to smash her. Anty's mother saw her falling down and dashed to her rescue. She pleaded with the raging squirrel to forgive Anty.Anty was lucky, as that day Browny was in a good mood. He pitied them and let go of Anty.Her mother whisked her away. Anty yelled back, “Browny, I will help you one day.”Anty's mother dragged her hurriedly into the burrow and Browny chuckled at the little ant's courage. Her friends admired her heroism while her mother warned her to be wary of the squirrel.Two months later, the ants got busy collecting and storing food in their den for the cold winters. Anty and her friends joined their families to gather food. The younger ants were full of energy and wandered far in search of food.Anty made up a song –“Hurray Hurray, Merry Merry!March March, left and right!Up the hill and down the hill, we go in a line;East and West, we run in quest;North and South, we search for grub;Hurray Hurray, Merry Merry!March March, left and right!”Anty and her friends sang at the top of their voice. The older ants were pleased. Anty saw Browny snoring under a tree. She was curious to know why the squirrel didn't collect food like them. But she did not dare to ask him.The winters were bitter. All the ants rested in their cosy dens. One day, Anty heard a deep moan. She wanted to find out from where it came, but her mother scolded her for prying. Anty pretended to sleep. Once her mother fell asleep, she followed the sound of the moan. It came from outside the oak tree. Browny was shivering with cold at the foot of the oak. His eyes were closed and he appeared to be in pain.Anty went back into the den and woke up her friends. Together, they thought and thought. They dug a deep burrow and filled it with dry leaves. Now, they had a problem. How will the little ants push the big squirrel into the warm dugout?Anty said – ‘all of us must push at the same time.' Her friends agreed. And like a leader, she shouted at the top of her voice, “Ready! Set! Go!” At the word go, the ants pushed the squirrel. Browny tumbled into the burrow. They covered him with dry grass.Browny opened his eyes after a day. Anty and her friends were happy that the squirrel got well and gave him peanuts to eat. The squirrel was grateful and nicknamed them - Anty's team. They became friends.

Karthik loved to read.He loved to read about Fairies, Rain, Sun and Flowers.During holidays, he would go to the park with his books, sit under a tree and simply begin to read. He would sit in his room on his play mat and lean against his dog and begin to read.He loved animals. He loved reading about animals.Karthik's favorite book was the one on animals. His dad had gifted him one on his 5th birthday. Karthik had an elder brother called Kaushik.Kaushik loved reading too. Being older, Kaushik liked to read books on Math and Science. Karthik's best friend was Kavya. They studied together in the same class in school.Very often, Karthik would ask Kavya to read along with him.After reading their books, they would tell each other what they read. Sometimes he would ask Kavya to read a book aloud to him while he would listen to her in attention.Such was Karthik's fondness for reading books.Are you fond of reading books too? :)Author's Note--------------------Books are an ideal gift for young readers..Books instill strong feelings of confidence, courage and happiness in young minds.They take them into a magical world where humans can fly, animals can talk, robots can sing and aliens can dance.A few tips to instill reading habit in your child/children:______________________________________________________________1. Pamper your child or your children with books relevant to their age.2. Talk to your child/children about the importance of reading books.3. Spend at least 15-20 minutes of each day reading a book to your child or children.4. Make a reading nook in your home, grab a book, one for yourself, one for your child and read together. If a dedicated reading nook is not possible, make any and every place your reading nook - on the bed, in center of your living room and even under the dining table :)5. Take your child or children to Public Libraries and help them to choose/pick a book for reading.6. Take them for story sessions happening in your locality once in a while.7. Importantly, talk to them about the book they read.Thanks!Anusha

Aditya, Vidya and Vedant are siblings living in the heart of Kashmir. They are the apple of their parents eyes. Thou they fight like bulls with each other, the love between them is palbable. They have a pet dog named ILU. It is from their pet that they have learnt what it is to love without expectation. Aditya and Vedant are very close to ILU, thou Vidya differs in this aspect. She is not as fond of ILU as the other two. Vidya feels that ILU has divided the love between the siblings. She feels left out. One day Vidya was alone in the house as his sibling had gone to the market with mother. ILU went to Vidya and started licking her cheek out of love. Vidya got angry and pushed ILU away. She shouted at ILU and asked him to stay far. ILU went away immediately After some time Vidya heard some noise from a corner of the house. When she went to the corner she saw that ILU was whimpering. Vidya just patted ILU and ILU jumped with joy and cuddled into Vidya's lap. Vidya realised her mistake and also how much ILU loved her. From that day onwards Vidya along with Adtiya and Vedant treated ILU like a family member. Seeing this change in Vidya Mummy and daddy are also very happy that Vidya accepted ILU.

Pappa brought home some juicy mangoes."Yummy, yummy" said Nayana and Zia dancing a tango."Let's plant this seed" Nayana said holding the mango seed."Yes! It will grow to a big mango tree" Zia agreed. They dug the soil behind their school and planted the seed."Grow little seed, grow as tall as the sky" they danced with their friends around the seed. The next morning they came running to see the tree.Alas! No tree! Nothing!So they left the seed and went their way. Mr. Sniffy came searching for food."sniff sniff" he sniffed the seed.Oh ho! will it eat our seed?Mr. Sniffy the squirrel gathered dry leaves and laid it over the seed."Winter's coming, sleep well little seed"The seed snuggled under the leaves and dreamed. Spring sprang up! And with it came dragonflies waving their beautiful wings."Swishyswashyswishyswashy wake up lil seedyswashy" their wings sang.Our little seed raised its teeny weeny greeny head and looked around."What a beautiful world!" Along came a hen pecking and cluckingOh ho! will the hen eat up the tiny little shoot?"Cluckety cluck, what a lovely sight!"The hen gave the thirsty little shoot a beak full of water."Gulp gulp" our shoot drank it all up and smiled. SillyOzzy came and sang a silly song."vivellybivelly mangotango bivellyvivellytangomangopippelytippely mango tippelypippely tango"Our little plant danced and grew long. Seasons came one by one,Spring, Summer, Fall and Winter.Sunshine, rainbow and rolling thunderHad their fun and said goodbye when they were done.Our little tree smiled at the sun and the rain,And grew enough leaves to cover a train. Nayana and Zia came walking byAnd thud! A ripe mango fell on their heads.They looked up, and what a sight it was!Golden and yellow , a sky full of sweet mangoes!"That's the prettiest sky ever" they sang with joy!

Monkey see,Monkey do I'm a monkey,Just like you! Swinging high,Swinging low, I'm always moving,On the go Hungry, hungryAll the time Food is always on my mind Making mischief on a tree Takes its toll,As you can see!

Basha and his sister Sainabi live in Hyderabad with their parents. Basha loves food. What he loves more is to cook food. He helps his Ammi in the kitchen everyday. He likes to watch her hands as they chop the brightly-coloured vegetables - plump red tomatoes, crisp green capsicums, firm orange carrots, fleshy pink onions...“Mmmm!” Basha loves the tempting aromas that swirl around Ammi's kitchen as the dhals, rice, vegetables, meat, and spices change colour on the stove. He hopes that Ammi will give him a chance to cook a dish on his own someday. One day, Basha and Sainabi come back from school to find Ammi asleep with high fever. Baba is not yet back from his office.Ammi's mobile rings. Basha sees that Ammi's best friend Saira aunty is calling and answers it quickly. He does not want to wake Ammi up.“I'm on my way back home from a wedding with lots of friends,” Saira aunty explains. She sounds exhausted. “We will be passing by your home in about two hours' time. Do you think we can have dinner at your place? There are 24 of us - and 4 are vegetarian."Basha knows that Ammi would love to see them. He and Sainabi are very fond of Saira aunty too. “You are most welcome," Basha says. He feels excited as he hangs up the phone. This is his chance to cook a dish on his own! But will he be able to do it? He feels nervous. He opens the fridge and sees many of his favourite vegetables - cauliflower, peas, beans. He can also see a bunch of fresh mint leaves peeking out from under the carrots. "Yes!" he thinks to himself. "I have everything I need for a yummy Vegetable Dum Biryani!"Basha has watched Ammi cook Vegetable Dum Biryani many times for their family of 4. But he now has to cook for 24 people! That is six times* the number of people Ammi usually cooks it for!*(4+4+4+4+4+4 = 24. Or, 4x6 = 24)"That means," thinks Basha to himself, feeling a little nervous, "I have to cook the biryani six times!" Would he have enough time to do that? As he starts to lay out six of every vessel he needs for the cooking, Sainabi appears at the kitchen door. “What are you up to?” she asks, frowning. When Basha explains to her what he is doing, she starts to laugh loudly.“Buddhu!” she teases him. “You don't need to make the dish 6 times! You just have to have to make it ONCE, but with 6 times the quantities of all the ingredients needed."Basha doesn't like to be teased by his smart little sister. Of COURSE he doesn't have to make the biryani six times! He could kick himself for his silly mistake. "I knew it all the time," he says quickly. "I just wanted to see if YOU knew it."“Of course you did, Bhai," Sainabi says soothingly, but her eyes twinkle mischievously. "So, tell me, how much rice do we need for 4 people?”“1.5 cups.”“Then you'll need 1.5 x 6 = 9 cups of rice for 24 people," Sainabi replies instantly. Basha stares at her. How does Sainabi work out those numbers so quickly in her head? "That's right," he says gruffly, measuring out the rice into a big vessel. "Now, why don't you tell me how much we need of all the other ingredients too, and I will tell you if you are right.""Sure, Bhai!" says Sainabi, running to get a pencil and paper. She loves it when her brother involves her in something he is doing. As Basha tells her the list of ingredients needed for four people, she calculates the quantities for 24."15 green beans for 4 people," calls out Basha."That means... 15 x 6 = 90 green beans for 24!" says Sainabi."3/4 cup of curd for 4 people.""That means 3/4 x 6 = 0.75 x 6 = 4.5 cups of curd for 24," says Sainabi, working it out on her paper quickly. "I hope we have that much curd in the fridge.""We do," says Basha. "Next..." Finally, they have measured out all the ingredients. “Can you help me with the chopping too?” Basha asks, realizing that there are a lot of vegetables to be chopped.“Of course, Bhai,” grins Sainabi. Today is her lucky day!Basha first soaks the fine orange strands of saffron in milk and the rice in water. He then joins Sainabi in chopping the vegetables. Then he turns on the stove and starts roasting the spices - cinnamon, cloves, green cardamoms, black cardamoms - and all the chopped vegetables, in ghee.The familiar pleasant aromas of good food start to fill the house. Basha starts to gain confidence in himself. He can't wait to get to his favourite part now - layering and slow-cooking the half-cooked rice, spices and vegetables in a handi.As Basha sets up the handi and starts to slow-cook it on the tawa, the doorbell rings. Before he and Sainabi can get to the door, Ammi has woken up and is greeting the guests with a surprised look on her face. Her surprise turns to worry as she realizes that they're here for dinner and she hasn't cooked anything. She follows the pleasant smells and reaches the kitchen.“Surprise!” shout Basha and Sainabi as they whip the lid off the handi. Ammi is stunned.“Basha is a great cook, Ammi. He has made biryani! I helped him make it,” Sainabi says. Basha smiles proudly at Ammi, thinking that his little sister is not so bad after all.Ammi hugs Basha and Sainabi. "Mashallah!" she smiles. "I have two really fine kids. I am so proud of you both.""Why don't you join Saira aunty and the others, Ammi?" says Basha. "Sainabi and I will serve you all." Sainabi nods eagerly. Maybe Bhai will ask her to help him with more things from now on! She can't stop smiling at the thought.“This is the best Dum Biryani we've ever had!” say Saira aunty and her friends."I agree - 100 percent!" says Ammi, licking her fingers. Basha and Sainabi are all smiles! Cook with Basha and Sainabi!Guess what! Basha and Sainabi's Ammi sweetly agreed to share her Dum Biryani recipe with us! Be sure there is an adult around when you try it.Ingredients (for a biryani that serves 4):- Basmati rice - 1 1/2 cups, soaked in water- Hot milk with 3 strands of saffron soaking in it - 2 tbsp*- Water - 4 cups- Ghee - 4 tbsp- Onion - 1, sliced- Shahi Jeera - 1/2 tsp**- Bay leaf - 1- Cinnamon - 2 inch stick- Cloves - 8- Ginger-garlic paste - 1 1/2 tbsp- Mixed vegetables (cauliflower, beans, carrots, peas) - 3 cups, chopped- Tomato - 2 small, chopped- Green chilli - 1, chopped*tbsp = tablespoon**tsp = teaspoon - Spice powders (Garam masala - 1 tsp; Haldi powder - 1/2 tsp; Dhaniya powder - 1 tbsp)- Curd - 3/4 cup- Mint leaves - 2 tbsp, chopped- Coriander leaves - 1 tbsp, chopped- Cashews and raisins - 5 each- Green cardamom - 5- Black cardamom - 1- Milk - 2 tbsp- Salt - 1 1/2 tspStart cooking!1. Heat half the ghee in a pan and fry the onions until browny-gold. Keep aside.2. In the same pan, heat the rest of the ghee. Fry shahi jeera, bay leaves, cinnamon and cloves in it. Add ginger garlic paste and fry for 2 minutes.3. Add the mixed vegetables, tomato and green chilli and fry for 3 minutes.4. Add all the spice powders. Fry well for 2 minutes.5. Pour the curd and half the salt into the pan and mix well. Cover and cook on low flame for about 10 minutes, until the vegetables are soft but not mushy.Footnotes to go with recipe1. A vessel with small holes at the bottom to drain water2. A deep and wide mouth cooking vessel 6. Take the pan off the stove and add mint and coriander leaves into it.7. In a separate pan, boil the water. Add the rest of the salt, black cardamoms and the green cardamoms.8. Drain the soaked rice, add it to the boiling water, and cook for 8 minutes with the pan uncovered. When the rice is almost cooked, drain it through a colander* . 9. In a handi** whose size is just right to hold the biryani, begin layering. In Layer 1, put 1/3rd of the cooked vegetable mix (from step 5) and 1/3rd of the cashews and raisins. In Layer 2, put 1/3rd of the cooked rice (step 8), topped with 1/3rd of the fried onions (step 1) and 1/3rd of saffron milk. Keep alternating Layers 1 and 2 until you have six layers.10. Cover the handi and place it on a hot tava. Cook for 5 minutes on a medium flame and another 7 minutes on a low flame.11. Remove the handi from the stove and mix the biryani until the colours of the spices are uniformly distributed.12. The Vegetable Dum Biryani is now ready to serve!!*Colander: A vessel with small holes at the bottom to drain water**Handi: A deep and wide-mouthed cooking vessel Are you a food math wiz?Can you cook up a delicious biryani for 24 like Basha did? No? Never mind. Maybe you can help him calculate the quantities of various ingredients he needs, like Sainabi did. Go on, try it!1. If Basha needs 1 onion for a biryani for 4 people, how many will he need for a biryani for 24 people?2. If Basha needs 72 florets of cauliflower for biryani that serves 24, how many florets should he put into a biryani that serves 3?3. If the recipe says to put in 3/4 cups of curd for a biryani for 6 people, how much curd should we put into a biryani for 48 people?4. To make biryani for 5 people, you need 4 tbsp of ghee. If Basha puts in 32 tbsps, how many people is he cooking for?5. A biryani that serves 8 needs 2 two-inch sticks of cinnamon. How many two-inch sticks are required for a biryani that serves 64?Once you're done calculating, check for answers in the next page. No cheating, okay? Answers:1. 6 onions2. 9 florets3. 6 cups4. 40 people5. 16 sticks

A cycle A bike An auto rickshaw A car A train A boat An aeroplane A parachute?

Lalu the owl was a friendly fellow. All the birds in the jungle were his friends. But Lalu's best friend in the jungle was Rainbow, the peacock. Rainbow the peacock was a great entertainer. He could sing and dance really well. One day Lalu organised a party and called all his friends! All of Lalu's friends came and danced and sang songs and even gifted Lalu a crown of feathers.But Lalu was said. Rainbow had not come to the party. Lalu waited and waited. His eyes were only on the door. Finally he saw Rainbow rushing towards his house. Huffing and puffing.Ohh, the joy and relief on Lalu's face. Lalu was a happy owl again!

"Again! Stack them up again, Bonda! I want to try knocking them down from a different angle!"Without hesitating for a moment, without even frowning, Bonda puts one battered box on top of the other for the fiftieth time. The high, shaky, cardboard tower is perfectly balanced, the way only Bonda knows how to build it. I rev up my super-speedy turbo engine – vrooom, VROOM – and gun for it, coming in from the right this time. BAM! I crash through, shrieking with delight, as the tower explodes around me.Bonda laughs, clapping as loudly as he did the first time I did this.Dear Bonda. The best, most loyal friend anyone could have. Especially a 10-year-old in a wheelchair. Hi. I'm Devi, and I'm from the year 2085 AD.My grandfather is always going on about how much the world has changed since he was my age, back in 2016. It's more crowded now, but the air, thankfully, is less polluted, because a great many vehicles now run on electricity or solar power. There are fewer accidents too, because vehicles drive themselves, and they are very careful. There are fewer trees and forests than there used to be, but more are being planted all the time, which is good.But what has REALLY changed, says my grandfather, is technology. There was technology way back in 2016 too, but nothing like what we have now. it has truly made life wonderful.Well, MY life, anyway. It was technology that gave me my best friend. Meet Bonda. Best friend forever, cardboard-tower builder, and ROBOT.I see your eyes pop. Ha! You hadn't guessed that, had you? But think about it. Which other friend would cheerfully build you a tower 50 times over without complaining? And which other friend would build it so perfectly every single time?Bonda: I agree! Humans are simply not as accurate or as consistent as we are. And they complain that doing the same thing over and over is “boring” (I've no idea what that word means, so don't ask me!). And they fall ill, and need to go to the toilet a lot. I wonder how they got anything done before we arrived! Building towers is not all Bonda can do, though. I can train him to do many other things – bowl me two dozen fast balls in ten minutes so that I can practise my batting, bring down my secret treasure box from the topmost shelf (which is so high that no one else can reach it without a ladder), lift Baba's heavy desk so I can see where my tiny gold earring has rolled off to (Ma would yell at me for hours if I lost it)... Things like that. Bonda: Like I said, humans are quite useless compared to us robots. The poor things are stuck at their sad little heights, while we can grow taller and shorter at will, by extending or collapsing our arms and legs. Our eyes can be cameras, telescopes, microscopes, or all three rolled into one! How do I train Bonda? By “programming” him. Programming means showing him, just once, how something's done. For instance, the other day, I wanted him to bring me my secret treasure box, the one I talked about earlier. Here's how I did it.First, I directed Bonda to the shelf it was sitting on, drawing the route on the plan of my house he displays on his touchscreen.“Can you reach up and scan the top shelf now, B?” I said when he got there. His arm shot out and up. As he ran his hand along the length of the shelf, the tiny camera inside his finger clicked away, taking pictures of everything there. When he showed me those pictures, I simply touched the picture of the box I wanted. "That's my secret treasure box, Bonda," I said. "Can you bring it down for me?"Now, whenever I need the box, I only have to say, "Secret treasure box!" and off he goes, straight to the shelf. Once he has “learnt” something, Bonda never forgets. His memory is fantastic!Bonda: Fantastic? Only to incompetent humans, who can never remember where they left their keys, their glasses, their phones... Yeah, that's what my best friend's like. And yeah, I am a very lucky girl indeed. Oh, don't get me wrong – I'm not weird. I do have human friends who I play with and fight with and go to school with. But I love Bonda more than all of them, because he doesn't sulk when I have fun with someone else, or get jealous when I beat him at maths, or mad when I forget to wish him on his birthday...Psst! And this is because... Bonda has no feelings! But don't say that out loud – it might make him feel bad. Bonda: Tsk, tsk, Devi, where's your logical thinking, girl? You say I don't have feelings, and then you worry that I will “feel bad”. Humans can be logical, but when they "feel" sad, or mad, or scared, logic disappears! Pah! Who needs feelings?Wait! Was that a “feeling” I felt just now? My processor tells me it was. It tells me I am feeling something called “disgust”... Hmm... I don't know how to “feel” about that. Oh, and here's the best part – I never have to feel bad that he's having fun with another friend instead of me, because... he doesn't have any!Bonda: Hey, hey, that's not true – I do have other friends! The robot waitress at the cafe always says “Hello” nicely, and so does the robot checkout boy at the grocery store...Wait a minute... I've just processed what Devi has been saying... she only likes me BECAUSE I have no other friends – AND no feelings! Not because of who I am! Oh no! I feel a rush of feels – I'm feeling mad, and sad, and... "Bonda! Are you okay? You're overheating, Bonda – you have a fever! And your auto shut-down is not working!"But don't worry, my friend, I will take care of you like you have always taken care of me. Listen carefully now, Bonda – I'm going to shut you down now so that your system can recover, ok? Don't be scared – it will be like going to sleep, that's all. And when I start you up again, you'll be back, good as new, and we will be best friends again. Do you hear me?"Bonda: Devi's eyes are all wet, like they are when she is sad, or scared. That makes me feel a sad feel. But my processor tells me that her wet eyes mean that she really cares about me. Now I feel a happy feel... So confused... sad-and-happy... happy-and-sad... And shutting dowww... There is a whirr and a hum as Bonda reboots. I fight back my tears."Bonda?" I say. "Bonda, can you hear me? Do you know who I am? Please tell me your memory isn't wiped out! I want you to remember all the fun we've had this past year, all the love..." Bonda: A-ha! Love. Was that the feel I was feeling, that happy-and-sad feel? Bonda looks at me."Hi Devi! What would you like me to do for you today? Shall we play Stack-the-Boxes? Shall I bring you your secret treasure box? Do you want to...""Bonda! You're all right! Oh, I'm glad, glad, GLAD!"I throw my arms around Bonda and hug him tight. Bonda: And then I do something really odd, something no one has ever programmed me to do. I wrap my arms around my friend Devi, for no logical reason at all.### Robots: Yesterday, Today And TomorrowWill there be a Bonda for every Devi by the year 2085? We'll have to wait and see, but there is no denying that robots will be far more visible even in 25 years from now, by the year 2040.### Who Or What Is A Robot?If you said a robot is a machine that looks and acts like a human, except it moves jerkily, has a flat, expressionless voice, and eyes that flash when it is turned on, you've obviously been watching too many movies and TV shows. Because, actually, a robot is “any electro-mechanical machine guided by a computer program or electronic circuits". Yup, it doesn't have to look like a human at all. Which is why you may not have realised that there are robots all around us, already!### Really? Where?Well, they are in factories, warehouses, orchards, hospitals and even homes. They may look like large mechanical arms, like the ones in car manufacturing plants, welding, gluing and painting car parts. Or they may look like tiny cameras, like the ones in hospitals, attached to thin hair-like tubes, entering our intestines and arteries to check them out for problems. Some robots look like flat round discs, working in homes and offices, buzzing around and cleaning floors at night when everyone is asleep. Some look like small wheeled vehicles, going into war zones, finding dangerous landmines, or rolling across the surfaces of the moon or Mars, taking pictures and collecting samples to send to scientists back on Earth. ### I Wish I Could See A Robot For Myself!If you have ever used, or even seen, a computer or a smartphone, you have 'seen' a robot! Yes, they are in those devices as well. Some of them even have names, like Siri and Cortana (have you heard of them?). They can help us find useful information - stuff for school projects, traffic reports (which roads have heavy traffic today? What is a good alternative route to take?), entertainment (where is the new Deepika Padukone movie running? And when is the next show?), and much more. They can even book our bus and train tickets, order our groceries, and tell us exactly how many calories we have burnt after a game of football.### What Does The Future Of Robots Look Like? What Will The World Really Be Like By, Say, 2040, As Far As Robots Are Concerned?We may not have robots walking our streets in India by 2040, but we will definitely be surrounded by robots of one kind or another without knowing it. It is quite likely that there will be driverless “robot” cars on our streets. We may have microscopic robots in our contact lenses that help us take pictures – we won't even have to hold our phones or cameras up to take them (but how will we take selfies??). And little airborne robots called drones will be flying busily all around – delivering letters, packages and kababs, putting delivery boys out of business, and hopefully reducing some traffic on our streets! As for 2085, 45 years AFTER that, who knows what robots will be up to?

My name is Bhola. Today, I cannot play cricket as my friends have not come to play. What can I do? I am all alone. Let me take a walk. Oh! Nature is so colourful. Pink and Yellow swaying flowers. Green trees and bushes. Green chirpy Parrots with red beak. Yellow buzzing honey bee. Blue open sky. Brown soft ground. Peach fishes with pink lips in blue water. I am feeling so fresh and happy. Let me do some reading now, under the big shady tree. Wow! Short stories and long stories to read from big books and small books, fat books and thin books. My books, let me be anyone who I want to be. It also takes me to so many places. Now, it is play time with my four legged rockstar friends. So much fun, we are making music together. Bow Bow barks Browny the dog. Meow Meow purrs Maumau the cat. Baa Baa bleats Rani the goat. Squeak Squeak squeaks Chua the rat. I go Sa Re Ga Ma.... Ha Ha Ha, there are so many nice things to do even when I am alone. I just have to look around, the whole world wants to play with me and I am no longer alone. I am so happy.

Crocky the crocodile was sad. He had no friends to play with. Babloo, the butterfly said, "I will play with you, Crocky. Do not cry." Tutoo, the turtle said, "I will play with you, Crocky. Do not cry." Susie, the snake said, "I will also play with you, Crocky. Do not cry." Fred, the frog and Fenny, the fish also came to play. So, Crocky found new friends to play with. He became happy.

One evening Tintu was playing with his garden friends. He was enjoying the bird's play and suddenly.. a beetle called Tintu and asked him to feed it with something delicious. Tintu rushed home and took some vegetables. He made a tasty and yummy soup. The beetle was happy to taste the soup.

Ammamma is sleeping. Tilly and Kyle were very hungry.The telephone rang. "May I help you?", asked Kyle. It was Amma calling to say she would be late home from work. She was a nurse at the hospital. She was calling to remind Ammamma that friends were coming to eat a meal with them at their house that evening. The children decided to make a meal. Kyle said to Tilly, "Look at all the dirty vessels! I'll wash one while you look in the refrigerator." Tilly said, "Look! There are lots of different vegetables in the refrigerator. Let's make a vegetable curry and surprise Ammamma!" Kyle and Tilly got busy peeling and cutting vegetables to make the vegetable curry. It was hard work but they had fun doing it together. They put lots of vegetables and some spices into the large vessel to cook on the gas burner. It was not long before Ammamma woke up when there was a knock on the door. When she opened the door, there were all her friends who had arrived to share a meal.Ammamma turned to see Kyle lifting a big pot off the burner. She was happy to know they would have tasty food to share with her family and friends. Ammamma was so pleased with Tilly and Kyle. Everyone could smell the delicious food waiting to be eaten.When Amma arrived home, she told Kyle and Tilly how proud of them she was too.

Jiril the squirrel sat on the branch of a tree. He was all alone. Jiril felt lonely. He wished he could play with his friends. He ran down the tree to the ground. He did not find his friendsbut he did find an acorn to eat. Jiril looked and looked for his friends but he could not find them.He took a nap because he was tired. When Jiril woke up, he decided to climb the tree again.But he was still half asleep and he rolled down to the ground. Soon he found his friends playing and eating.Jiril was happy now as he was not alone.

Danny the Dragon blew fire everywhere,Which hissed through the other dragons, right through their hair.But Danny the Dragon – oh, he didn't care!And the other dragons thought it wasn't fair.If Danny could blow fire, why couldn't they?But try as they might, they couldn't find a way. No fire whooshed out of their nostrils or their mouths,So they'd have to figure another way out.Instead of blowing fire, why couldn't Danny just burp?Those other dragons – they had a plan that just might work. When Danny came along, burning things away,Those other dragons, they plotted to lead him astray.To a forest they took him, a surprise promised.Where Danny had a meal he very much relished. A meal of mangoes, a most delicious fruit,Tasty to humans, but to dragons – a brute!All of it gone, not a single bit left,The mango juice had done what it did best. Danny could no longer blow fire and burn things.His fire was gone, his best things were now wings. Danny the Dragon cried sadly,“Why did they do this to me?”Now all he could do was burp all day,With everyone else laughing away. He flew over and sat in a field of red grass.“Why are you so sad?” a voice asked.A head popped up, it was the Chilly Monster.And Danny realized he had been sitting on Chilly's fur. “Those other dragons stole my fire,” Danny said.“Oh no,” said Chilly Monster shaking his head.“That's not nice of them, why did they do that?”Danny replied, “I burnt their fur and hats.” “I really want my fire back,” Danny said.“Eat some chillies, ones that are red.”The monster smiled, picking out some.And Danny ate them, still quite glum. Suddenly, his throat fired up to red-hot.The fire was back! Danny felt better. A lot!Danny blew the Chilly Monster a fiery thanks and flew off.For, no longer did he burp or cough. So the other dragons couldn't tease him,He had the fire. Once again, he was King!

“Imma... Appa... come quick!” cried Langlen.Langlen's parents found her crouching by the almirah watching three kittens playing with each other, mewling softly.“Imma...” started Langlen.“Shhh, softly,” said Imma. “Kittens are easily scared.” Suddenly, a big orange cat jumped in from the window. She ignored them and briskly went by and lay down. The three kittens rushed over and started suckling.Langlen and her parents tiptoed out. Langlen asked, “Wasn't the grey one the Mamma-Cat's kitten as well?”“It was,” replied Appa.“They why wasn't it orange? Like the Mamma-Cat?”“Maybe the Pappa-Cat is grey.”As Langlen was thinking about it, Appa continued, “The grey kitten has colouring like the Pappa-Cat, just like Langlen has curly hair like Appa!” “But everyone says I look just like Imma. See, we even have clefts on our chins, which makes it look like our chins are divided.”“You have a bit of both of us, because you are our sweet Langlen,” said Imma hugging her tight.“Does the grey kitten also have a bit from both Pappa-Cat and Mamma-Cat?” “Yes. All creatures with two parents have traits from both parents,” explained Appa.“A trait? Oh wait, let me guess. Would my curly hair be called a trait?”“Yes, that's a trait, Langlen. Any quality or characteristic you have is a trait. Can you think of others?” asked Imma.“Hmm... my height?”“Yes, that's another. The colour of your eyes, shape of your ears, length of your fingers and toes, and shape of your nose are all some of your characteristics,” explained Imma.“My curly hair is a trait from Appa and cleft chin is a trait from Imma. Did you get those traits from your parents?”“YES! You catch on quick. And they got their traits from their parents,” said Imma.  “But,” asked Langlen puzzled, “neither my grandmas nor my grandpas have cleft chins. Where did you get the trait from?”“Sometimes traits skip a generation or more. My grandfather, whom I called Pupu, had a cleft chin. His children, which included my mother, did not have that trait. Then I got it and passed it on to you.”“This makes me just a collection of traits from all of you,” said Langlen, a little sadly.Imma quickly hugged her. “No, Langlen. The passing of traits from parents to children is called heredity. We might share traits, but each one of us is different. Your combination of traits makes you unique!” “Look at me, Langlen,” said Appa. “I'm completely unique. Very tall, with long and curly hair on my head, face and ears. I am also the man with the widest feet in the world. What would you do if you had long curly hair on your ears?" “Hmm.... I would plait it, Appa, and put colourful rubber-bands!”Imma smiled at the two of them. “Women don't have ear hair, Langlen, but you seem to have got your father's trait for silly humour!” Appa went out of the room and Langlen snuggled into Imma's lap.“I have one more question. *Ebok always says you had dimples like her. Where did they go?”Laughing, Imma said, “I did get my mother's trait for dimples. But then, every trait has many influences. Some influences made it come and others made it disappear.”*Ebok: Grandmother in Manipuri Appa came back with a covered plate.“I am the influence which has made these yummy things magically appear on this plate!” So saying, he pulled the napkin off the plate. It was filled with hot vadas.“And we are the influences which will make them disappear?” said Langlen, stuffing her mouth without waiting for an answer. Understand the Difficult Words:Imma: Mother in ManipuriEbok: Grandmother in ManipuriPupu: Grandfather in ManipuriCleft: DividedTraits: Characteristic in a person, e.g., curly hair, cleft chin, dimplesHeredity: Passing of traits from parents to childrenGeneration: All the people that are born and live in about the same timeUnique: One of a kindInfluence: To have an effect on somethingVadas: Fried savoury dish Make Your Own Family TreeAs you may have already guessed, Langlen's mother is from Manipur and father from Tamil Nadu.Would you like to map out your own family tree just as Langlen did (pg 7 & 8)? Grab a paper and pen, and do it right away! If you get lost, you can always ask your parents for help. WHAT WOULD YOUR IMAGINARY PET LOOK LIKE?Straight or curly hair? Round nose or triangular nose?One leg, two legs or many more legs? A tail like a dog's or lion's?Draw your own imaginary pet with all kinds of traits.Mix it up and let your imagination run wild!

My name is Neha and my friend's name is Aiyana...We watch movies, have some snacks, Chit- Chat, paint masks, draw and color,play instrument, do horse riding, make lollipops, ice-creams, cup-cakes, chocolates, and cookies. One day I called my friend out in the BEAUTIFUL PARK....We climbed a tall and beautiful tree, and sat on a branch.. Oh I said.. we took some rest. and allwas quiet. A bird came and sat on my hand, we sang a song; flowers started blooming; the sun shined bright; we got fresh air and it felt like MAGIC was surrounding us. It was turning dark. We got down from the tree and we were talking and walking and talking and walking and.... walking and talking and walking and talking. I knew it was my birthday tomorrow but wanted to surprise my friend. I felt happy that she remembered it was my BIRTHDAY. I was filled with joy.I promised to fulfill her dream too.

Browny was the favourite horse of a King. The majestic look of the horse, Browny, attracted everyone in the palace. He was a lucky horse for the king. But Browny was not happy. Browny thought that he had lost his freedom in the palace, though he was well taken care of. One day, he managed to escape from the palace. He was galloping as fast as he could. But he could hear the king's guards chasing him. Without stopping to see, he galloped fast and reached a forest.Only after getting into the forest, he breathed a little. Lucky for him, the guards did not enter the forest.There he saw , many animals wandering here and there. Browny joined them. He was feeling the joy of freedom. He even made friends with a deer and both Browny and the deer were chatting. Suddenly there was a loud roar. Immediately, the deer shouted," Browny, run for your life. The leopard is on its way hunting for food." Realising the danger he was in, he started galloping again. He galloped as fast as he could. He reached a city. There was a huge crowd in a place. That was the 'Sea World', theme park. He pushed the crowd and entered the place. Seeing the horse, some boys started hitting him with stones. To escape from stones, he started running again. Not knowing where to run, he ran into a large gathering. There was a big pool of water around which people were seated. That was a 'Dolphin Show'. Browny was running with such great speed that he jumped into the water in the pool. Water splashed everywhere around the pool. Dolphin, ready for the show also jumped outside.Organisers of the show tried to catch Browny. The fully wet Browny somehow managed to get outside and started galloping again. He started running outside. The king's guards, searching for him, spotted him and shouted "Browny Browny". Tired Browny recognised the guards. Unable to run further, Browny decided to return to the palace. After returning to the palace stable, he thought to himself," No other place on this earth is as safe and comfortable as this stable".He also realised that escaping from the palace, is like jumping into the fire from the frying pan.

Fatima loved Sunday afternoons. After a lunch of beans and kofta, Maa would read the newspaper on her favourite chair and Baba would sneak away to take a nap. Fatima could patter away with her book into the lively green forest near her house. The forest creatures would be sleeping, so it would be just her, curled up in the quiet hug of the forest trees. Fatima would sit down in the shade of the Arjuna tree and gaze into the leafy Up World. Maa had warned her not to climb the tree's branches. It was safe down below. Fatima didn't know what was in the scary Up World.But that day, Fatima was in for a surprise. As she turned a page, Fatima felt a dull THUMP! on her head.“Ouch!” she yelled, rubbing her sore head. It was a tiny book, barely the size of a pea. Fatima looked up and saw a furry animal trying to hide behind a bough of leaves.“Hello! Is this book yours?” she asked, peering into the Up World. But she got no answer. The pea-sized book belonged to Gopa, a young dormouse who lived in the Up World.Gopa's little house, made of soft dry leaves and twigs, was in the Arjuna tree as well. The dormouse had often seen Fatima reading, and loved the yellow ribbons in her hair. But Gopa's Amma had warned her about the terrors of the Down World.All the animals were fearful of Fatima and other human beings and tried to remain invisible to the Down World. That Sunday, Gopa had been swinging on her green, leafy hammock and reading. She was about to turn the last page when a strong breeze blew the book out of her small, furry paws. Down it went! It bounced on the branches and floated away. The book fell THWACK! and hit Fatima on her head.Gopa's tail quivered and ears twitched. The Up and Down World should never meet, she thought and bolted home. Fatima didn't climb the tree but kept squinting and trying to read the book. The letters were too small! Finally, she decided to return the book to the shadowy, furry creature.Fatima was really clever – next Sunday she tied five shiny, red balloons around her waist and suddenly, she was floating up. To the Up World!Up, Up, and Up went Fatima, until she reached the tree tops. Gopa was brushing her bushy tail when she spotted five, shiny red balloons!“Oh, balloons! Maybe it is someone's birthday,” she thought excitedly. But what was this?There was the girl with the yellow ribbons attached to the shiny, red balloons.“Run, run away!” squeaked Gopa, “The Down World humans are here!” But Fatima was faster. Fatima offered Gopa the book and asked, “Is this yours?”Gopa grabbed the book quickly and smiled. Fatima giggled. She caught Gopa staring at her ribbons and tied one in a neat bow around her tail. Fatima and Gopa held hands and went off exploring! Fatima and Gopa ran and skipped over the gaps in the trees of the canopy forest.They bugged Baankey the fruit bat, who was sleeping upside down. Baankey did not like being poked. He grunted grumpily, and flapped away to the next branch.“These kids will never let me rest,” he thought. Soon he was away in Dreamsville, where he was hanging out in a fig tree, biting into the fleshy, sweet fruits. Gopa helped Fatima hop over the long lines of weaver ants who were too busy to even stop and say hello. With long spindly legs and bubble-shaped bodies, the weaver ants scampered all over the tree.These ants love teams! They work together to stitch large leaves into cozy nests. Next, they bumped into Firki the canopy frog.“He looks like a rainbow,” thought Fatima. “Yellow feet, red eyes, and a blue body!” Firki was so surprised to see a human in his canopy that he almost let go of his strong grip on the branch! He croaked a weak hello and turned to pounce on his lunch – a grasshopper!“I thought only the Down World had frogs,” said Fatima, who loved chasing frogs around her house pond. Hari the Hornbill was watching them from a distance. He really wanted to be friends with them! Hari was a friendly bird but he made very loud noises, which is why some animals kept him at a distance. But Gopa and Fatima didn't mind at all. “The Up World isn't so scary after all,” thought Fatima. “How silly I was.”“The people from the Down World are pretty cool,” thought Gopa. “I am not frightened anymore.” “Sob! Sniff.”“Uh, oh, I think Vaidya is crying,” said Gopa.Her sharp ears picked up sounds easily. The two friends hurried towards Vaidya, a green vine snake, who was very shy. “What is wrong, Vaidya?” asked Gopa.Vaidya sobbed, looking greener than usual. “They cut down the tree that was my home. Now I don't know where to go,” he cried.Baankey, Dipu and other animals also popped out of their homes. Vaidya was homeless.“A new, concrete road is going to be built and humans cut down my tree,” wailed Vaidya.Cutting down their home! The Up World was alarmed and upset. “We must help Vaidya,” said Gopa.Fatima, Gopa and their new friends formed a search party. They searched and searched and found a snug tree-hole home for Vaidya. Fatima layered the home with soft leaves and orange flowers, Vaidya's favourite colour.Vaidya loved his new home. “I can't believe I have so many friends! We need to have a party,” he said. And what a party it was. Everyone got their favourite food. Gopa got nuts, Hari got fruits, Baankey was too sleepy to get anything, the ants brought home-stitched, leafy cushions to sit on! Nobody wanted Firki's grasshoppers. As for Fatima, she had to get the balloons.For the first time ever, the Up World and the Down World were just One World. Meet Fatima's Friends in the Up WorldGopa and her friends live in the vast forest canopies of India. That means they don't live in the Down World, like us human beings. Instead they live in the Up World, in the swinging branches and swaying leaves of trees.Many creatures that live in forest canopies are now used to living in tree tops. If you're lucky you will spot some of them, but most of these animals know how to hide themselves cleverly. So you have to be patient!When scientists go to learn about these canopies, they have to use ropes or ladders, because the trees are very tall. Some even use very large hot-air balloons to get up there. You can imagine just how Up Fatima had to go with her balloons. Here are some of the animals who living in forest canopies:Malabar spiny dormouse: This bushy-tailed animal likes to live in trees in quiet, undisturbed forests. It loves to eat fruits and nibbles on pepper sometimes. This dormouse sleeps like a hedgehog, curled up with its tail protruding OUT.Hornbill: These birds are vividly coloured with long and strong beaks. These sociable birds love to eat fruits, insects and even small animals. They make nests in holes in trees and when they have babies, they make a mud wall to cover up the hole, much like making a house! Green vine snake: A bright green, slender tree snake that hides in the leaves of a canopy. It moves very slowly. You can find them not only in India but also Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Burma, Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam.Tree frog: There are several kinds of tree frogs and they come in various colours. They can have white lips or red or yellow eyes and brown feet. They are usually very small, half the size of your palm, because they have to jump around delicate branches. They spend most of their lives up in the trees.Fruit bat (aka Megabat): They hang upside down. Try to imagine what the world looks like to them! They love to eat fruits and being busy in the trees. They can be super noisy too. You can hear them from a long way off. They have keen senses of sight and smell and are very helpful to us because they pollinate the flowers and fruits we love.

We Don't Pick Up Dog Family - Oviee SarwateOne day there was a dog. He had many friends. He wanted to have less friends. One day another dog came and scared him and ran away. Then one cat came and scared the dogs away. The dogs sat in one garden. There they met old friends and make new friends.One girl came and took one dog away because she wanted a pet. She had one sister, she too went to the garden and took one dog home. Then one night when all had dinner and were sleeping and they woke up in the morning, they both sat in bus and go to school. They play in school garden.The dogs ran away when they are in school. When they come back in afternoon after school, they both are crying. They did not study or sleep in the afternoon. Then mummy and papa scolded at children.

Oli Tagore was ten years old. She loved football. Rebecca Collins was her best friend. She was eleven years old. These two used to play in a football team called 'Goal'. There were only three girls in the team – Oli, Rebecca and another girl called Anna. The boys were Harry, Allen, Louis, Alex, Liam, Niall, Jacob and Oli's twin, Boom. One day Boom started singing a very silly song...“the stars are shining bright,they are the spectators,the moon is the football,and I am going to kick it,before kicking it I will say – Om, Om, Om,GOOOOOOOOAAAAALLLLLL!!! ... yay.....Oli and Rebecca were planning for the day's game when Dave, Rebecca's younger brother came crying ''waaa, Mama, the wall hit me'', when he suddenly tripped on Oli's football kit. Dave said, ''KABOOM, waaaaa, waaaa, waaaa... ''. Rebecca called out, “Oh Mama, Davey Pavey's got hurt''. The next day Oli's mom got a call saying the coach fractured his leg. Boom said to Rebecca, “Fatty Patty (thats what he called his coach), fractured his leg.'' Rebecca asked, ''How?'' Boom said, ''I don't know.'' Rebecca said, ''Wow, new coach, woohoo!'' Then she ran around the field and hugged a light pole and said, ''I hope its a woman.'' Then a colourful car drove up on the driveway, the door opened and a woman with two extra large backpacks came out. She said, ''I am Helen, your new football coach. Is this the team, Goal?'' Alex said, ''Yo, sure we are!'' Then Boom whispered into Oli's ear, ''Too much lipstick, Mommy's going to hate her.'' The coach said, “Don't call me coach, call me Helen. Now lets get started.” Then she loudly said (it even echoed), “Its the Big Game today!” After their practice, they all were very exhausted. Then Helen pulled out twelve bottles out of her bag. Harry asked, “What's that?” Helen said, “Oh yes, I forgot to tell you, it is 'Power Shoot' an energy drink, quickly gulp it down.” They did as they were told to. Then suddenly Anna's watch started beeping. She said, “Its ten minutes to eleven, get ready.” Then Boom heard a loud bark. He said, “Sweaty is here to watch our game too.” Oli's eyes enlarged and said, “Sweetie, not Sweaty.” Then she huffed and puffed and grunted and sighed. Then they saw the spectators coming. Helen said, “Game time.”They were playing against the team 'Double Trouble'. The match started and Double Trouble shot a goal. But the team 'Goal' shot one too. Double Trouble was now struggling to shoot a goal. 'Goal' soon shot another goal. The game was of three goals. For the next half hour none of the teams scored. But finally 'Goal' shot their winning goal and they were really happy. They had won the Big Game.

Mani put his Schoolbag down on the Coffee Table and groaned. His shoulders hurt, but his head hurt even more. It had been a long day. The Amulet around his neck flashed once.“Manikantan, put your Schoolbag where it belongs,” said the Coffee Table.“Yes Manikantan,” agreed the Schoolbag, “I don't belong here. I suggest you put me in your Room in a proper place.” Mani knew better than to argue. He picked up the Schoolbag and trudged towards his Room. He put away his Schoolbag on the Desk, kicked off his Shoes, and then lay down on the Bed. He groaned.“Are you not feeling well, Manikantan?” asked the Room.“I'm fine. Leave me alone.”Mani moved the Amulet to the back of his neck. He longed to throw it into the Trash. The objects in the House would still be able to spy on him but at least they wouldn't be able to talk to him.“You groaned twice.” The Room's voice sounded muffled. “Do you have a headache, Manikantan?”“Leave me alone.” Then after a pause, Mani added, “Yes.”“Tsk, tsk. So sorry to hear that, Manikantan.” The Room sounded very sympathetic. “I have let your Amma know. Perhaps you are hungry. That may be why you're having a headache. How about a nice hot cup of chai and some pakodas?” Chai and pakodas would be nice, though Mani wished the Room hadn't told amma he had a headache. Now she would worry.“Okay.”“Great. I have told the Kitchen. And Manikantan, put your Shoes in the ShoeRack.”“Yes,” said the ShoeRack, “I have plenty of space. Waiting.”Mani knew he should get up, but he didn't feel like it. Maybe he should just sleep a little. He was so tired.“Waiting,” said the ShoeRack.Mani closed his eyes and thought of Anandpuram. His Amma called it a village, but to Mani it was home. He recalled the graceful sway of the tall palm trees and the vast rose-blue sky. In the morning the gentle gusts of wind carried the wonderful smell of porottas cooking over charcoal fires. The winter months were the best. The cool air was nothing like the air-conditioned air in Smart City's buildings. No, wait, the rainy season was the best! It was such fun to watch the fat heavy warm droplets splish-splosh into the river Periyar.Oh, how he'd enjoyed sitting by the riverbank. So quiet, so peaceful. If only things could go back to the way they had been. “Waiting,” said the ShoeRack.Mani sat up with a sigh. He didn't mind being given helpful hints, but this was too much. It was almost like being a prisoner and nobody, not even Amma, understood. Mani placed the Shoes on the ShoeRack and headed for the Kitchen.He had to warm the pakodas himself, but the FoodGenie brewed some chai. It tasted exactly like the kind of chai a machine would make.“Is the chai to your satisfaction, Manikantan?” asked the FoodGenie.“As good as cow urine.”“Thank you.” Mani's Amulet beeped. It was his mother. She wanted to know whether he was feeling better.“How is your headache, kanna?” Her loving voice made Mani feel very sorry for himself.“The headache's better, Amma. How's work?”“Wonderful. It's not like my old Anandpuram job at all. How was your day, kanna?”“Great.” His Amma worked so hard, such long hours, worried so much about him, cared so much. She was his mother and father and all the family he had in the world. He just didn't have the heart to tell the truth.“I had a great day.”“You sure, Mani? Your SchoolBag told me you were sent to the Principal. What was that about?”“Nothing.”“Mani?”“Nothing! You can ask the Schoolbag. It seems to know everything.”“Mani, what's the matter? Look, why don't you go to the Mirror? I want to see you. Whatever the problem is, we can solve it.” “No, we can't solve it!” Mani felt tears beginning to form. He tried to press back the tears but they kept coming like the rain on Periyar.He knew the House would report to his mother that her son was crying. Everything he did was watched and reported. He knew it was all for his own good and he knew Amma loved him, but sometimes, he wanted things to be.He closed his finger around the Amulet, and pulled the chain so hard, it snapped. Mani threw the Amulet into the Trash, and ignoring its shouting, ran out of the apartment.Mani didn't know how long he ran or where he went or how exactly he got lost. Without the Amulet to guide him, he simply didn't know where he was going. But the smart objects of the City had guessed he was lost and alerted the proper authorities.After his mother had thanked the nice policeman who brought him back, Mani took the Amulet from her. He was ashamed but also really glad to be back.“I have adjusted some of the settings,” said his mother. “The House will now give you a little more privacy. But it is really for your own good, Mani.”“I know,” mumbled Mani.“So how was it, your little adventure?”Mani shuddered. The streets had been filled with people but they were all somehow different. They were all strangers. With the Amulet, the streets were filled with many people he almost knew. Their names, the kind of music they liked, who their friends were, lots of fun stuff like that. Without the Amulet even simple things, like crossing the streets, had become difficult. There was no voice to tell him: “You can cross now, Manikantan.” And nobody knew him either.When he had passed the poster for the movie 'Mission Maut', the hero of the movie Vikram Seven said: “Hi, do you like action movies?”If he'd had the Amulet, Vikram would have said: “Hey Manikantan, nice to see you again, yaar, let's talk.” Without the Amulet, every object was as stupid as a stone. “I thought so,” said his mother, with a small smile. “Now Mani, you know you shouldn't have left the House without the Amulet? We were so worried!”“I'm sorry I broke the rules, Amma.”“That's not always a bad thing, kanna. But you are a big boy now. You have to be more mature. Our life here is pretty happy, na?”Mani thought of Anandpuram. An Amulet would be pretty useless in Anandapuram. Maybe that wasn't such a good thing. He nodded.His mother was very sweet. She prepared dinner by hand — well, mostly by hand, the FoodGenie helped, just a little. Then she read him a story as he drank his milk. Later she tucked him into bed, gave him a good-night kiss, and touched her Amulet to his. He could tell Amma was very tired.“Good night, Amma.”“Good night, kanna.” “Good night, Manikantan, good night, Amma,” whispered the House. “Sleep tight, and I won't let the bedbugs bite.” The Internet of ThingsDoes your alarm clock know that you have exams tomorrow? Will it remind you to set the alarm so that you can get up early to do a final revision? If you are going somewhere and get lost, can your shoes give step-by-step directions? Of course not.Today, most of the objects we are surrounded are just objects. They don't really know anything about you or the objects in the house. The clock is just a clock. The radio is just a radio. The clock does not know what the radio does and vice versa. They are not connected to you or to other people or to the objects in the world.But things are about to change. Soon, all human-made objects will be interconnected. They will be more aware of what is going on around them. They will be smarter. They will be able to exchange data and keep track of your needs in a better way. When objects get interconnected and can communicate with each other, as if by an invisible telephone network, we say we have an Internet of Things.If it were up to you, would you like to live in Smart City or in Anandpur? Why? What if they all started talking?Count the number of objects in your home or classroom (door, chair, clock, radio, books, etc.). Are you surprised by the number?Imagine how it would be if they could all see and hear and speak. How would your life change?

This is Jadav, a tree-planter.He loves tree-places because they are full of life.No-tree-places make him terribly sad, because they are full of dead things. Years ago, Jadav was walking along the banks of the great Brahmaputra River when he arrived at a big, empty no-tree-place.It was dry and hot. The sand was powdery and striped. Striped sand? How odd.Jadav went closer to take a better look.Oh, but they weren't stripes at all! The ground was covered in snakes!Last night's floods must have washed them ashore, Jadav thought. These snakes weren't slinking and slithering and swaying about like regular, healthy snakes. When Jadav walked among them, they didn't hiss or run away or try to bite him. They just lay about like old ropes, tired and still."Poor snakes! They're dying from the heat! If only they had some shade to lie in! If only this no-tree-place had some trees in it!" Jadav couldn't bear to watch the snakes die. It made him so terribly sad that he sat down and began to cry.But he quickly came to his senses. "No more crying. From now on: only trying!"He jumped up, ran back to his village and began collecting all the bamboo shoots he could carry in his bag. "Regular plants won't grow in the hot sand, but bamboo will. Bamboo is strong!" Jadav brought the shoots to the no-tree-place and started planting them everywhere. It was hard, hot work, and it took years.The river grew thin one summer and flooded the next, sometimes bringing more sand and sometimes taking it away. Heavy rains came and went. But Jadav kept on planting. In time, the bamboo took root and began to grow. As it grew, it brought shade, and the shade brought insects.The insects burrowed into the ground, and the earth below the bamboo trees began to change. The dry and white became rich and brown, and the dead sand became living soil.Jadav was no longer sad. But he wasn't happy either.He looked around his bamboo grove and thought, "A few-trees-place is nice, I know.But how wonderful it would be if this were a many-trees-place!" The idea thrilled him.So Jadav went back to his village and began collecting many more seeds and saplings.He filled three big bags with Arjun and ejar and gulmohar and koroi and moj and himolu."Now that our few-trees-place has lovely brown soil, we can plant all these and more!" Jadav brought his new saplings and seeds to the few-trees-place and planted them all around.It was hard work, his back hurt, and it took many years. The orange and blue skies turned purple and pink, and villages became towns. The wind grew laden with dust, and the river became grey. But Jadav's insect friends helped to till the soil, and his tall bamboos gave him shade and cooled the air. And Jadav kept on planting. Soon, his Arjun, ejar and gulmohar, his koroi, moj and himolu, and all his many other plants dug in, took root and started growing.As they grew, they spread new seeds, and the new seeds, in turn, took root. Shoots became trunks, trunks grew branches, and the branches reached for the sky. The few-trees-place that was once a no-tree-place now became a wonderful, green many-trees-place.But what's a many-trees-place without many tree-creatures? When one came, the others followed. First, came the birds.They flocked and flew in from near and far, to make their nests in Jadav's tree-place. There were vultures and pelicans and storks and ducks. And warblers and thrushes and wagtails and chats. Next, came the animals.They skipped and swung and sauntered in, to make their homes in the many-trees-place. There were buffaloes and deer and rabbits and gibbons. And elephants and tigers and rhinos. Finally, there came the snakes.They slithered and swayed and sashayed in, to cool themselves in the shade of Jadav's trees.When Jadav saw the snakes, he sat down and cried happy tears. He was so happy that he wasn't even afraid of getting bitten. Jadav's tree-place had filled with feathers and beaks and wings, with claws and tails and fangs.There were spots and splashes, stripes and flashes, and green, green, everywhere.The tree-place was a forest, at last. And Jadav was a happy man.Then Jadav had another thought."Many trees in one place is good, I know.But how wonderful it'd be if there were many trees in every place!"So he grabbed his bags of seeds and started walking across the world.And as he walked, Jadav started planting the seeds in all the no-tree-places he saw.And he planted. And planted. And planted.But there are so many no-tree-places in the world.There are more no-tree-places than tree-places now.This is terribly sad, but Jadav does not sit down and cry this time. Jadav plants. And plants.And plants some more.It's going to be hard work, bringing all the old forests back.The seas have begun rising, and the winds grow cold.Towns have become cities, and Jadav is growing old.But he keeps on planting. And planting. And planting. Jadav will keep on planting until the whole world is a happy, lovely lots-of-trees-place. Jadav in Real LifeJadav ‘Mulai' Payeng is a conservationist and recipient of the Padmashree, one of the highest civilian honours awarded by the Indian government. Jadav lives in Majuli, Assam.At the age of 16, distressed by the sight of dying snakes that had washed up on a sandbar banking the Brahmaputra, Jadav decided to plant some trees in the spot. He started small, with bamboos, and grew an entire forest, plant by painstaking plant. This was back in 1979.Over the next three decades, Jadav and his tree-planting have managed to change the soil in the barren area. The 550-hectare sandbar is now a lush, dense forest and home to a variety of flora and fauna, including elephants, tigers, apes, deer and many species of local and migratory birds. Jadav continues to visit and nurture his forest every day, planting wherever he finds empty patches. Growing Up With a Mango Tree:a Tree-Planting ActivityJust ate a mango? Loved it? Want another? You can go to a shop and buy one, of course. But it's a lot more fun (and free!) to use the seed of the mango you just ate and make a few fruits of your own. All you need is time and patience.First, find a nice patch of empty land near your house. Get a friend, sibling or grown-up to help you plant the seed you saved in that patch. Make sure the soil is loose and there's plenty of sun. It may take several weeks of waiting, watering and watching before your seed turns into a plant, so don't worry and definitely don't hurry.Once your seed germinates and grows into a healthy mango plant, get ready for a lot more waiting, watering and watching. Take care that your plant doesn't get eaten up by insects or animals, or get stepped on by someone. If all this waiting is making you feel bored, read a few books, sing some songs, and plant some more plants!After a few years, as you grow taller, your mango plant will grow tall with you, until it becomes a big tree that you can climb and picnic under. This is when the real fun begins. By now, your tree will have started making its own mangoes, which you and your friends can eat. Even better, those mangoes will soon start attracting other mango-loving creatures to your tree: birds, ants, squirrels, bats, monkeys, spiders and lots more.Some of these creatures will come to eat the fruit, some will come to feed on the tree's sap, some to drink nectar from its flowers, and some creatures will even come to eat some of the other creatures hanging around the tree. But it's not all about eating. Some creatures may come just to rest in your tree's shade, or to take a nap in its branches. Your tree has many different uses for every different creature!Spend some time every day watching who visits your mango tree, at which time of the day they come, and what they do. Write down what you see in your notebook. Also draw pictures of what you see.See how much you've done and learned with just one mango seed? Isn't tree-planting fun? Now imagine how much fun Jadav must have had planting his entire forest full of trees!

The dreamy cat saw fishes falling from the sky like a rain. The cat thought if she eats enough fishes, she will grow up and become a tiger.

Nanni was a young bird who lived near the sea. A young and very naughty bird. She hardly every listened to her parents Ma and Pa bird.One day, early in the morning, when the sun could just about be seen in the horizon, Nanni decided to go an adventure. She didn't tell anyone where she was going. What better adventure than to go and explore that big ship anchored close by!Nanni loved ships. She loved everything about them. So when she saw this one, she turned two somersaults in the air and dived straight in!She ignored the greasy slimy oily layer on the water. When she wanted to soar up into the sky, she found that she couldn't!Poor Nanni, her wings had been coated with ugly, ugly oil! UGH!Nanni cried out for help! MA! PA! Luckily, her parents were close by and flew to her immediately. They gave her a bath, and also a bit of a scolding. Nanni's parents told her, that had she paid attention, she would have seen drums of oil floating on the water near the ship. There must have been a small oil spill!Nanni decided that from then on, she would look before she dived.Getting one's feathers coated in ugly, ugly oil is never a good thing!

Once little Baby boy saw a photo album of his Mommy and Papi. In every picture he tried to find himself, and was very sad that the album only had his parent's pictures and not his.Baby boy was sad and angry. He asked his Mommy "where am I? You went on a holiday without me! Mommy saw how upset Baby boy was. She smiled and said, "That's because, Baby boy you were busy playing in the clouds! When you were very little and wore only diapers, you lived in the white puffy clouds in the sky. You would crawl in and out of them, smile at me and then again crawl back into those clouds" Baby boy was listening with astonishment! Mommy continued, "And then one day, I asked Mr. Crane, who is that cute little baby in the clouds? I would very much like to invite him for some cake and chocolate milk""Mr. Crane looked in your direction and said, Oh I see, you are asking about Baby Boy! he indeed is the cutest little baby in the entire sky. I can very much fly him down here on my back""Mr. Crane, caught you by your diaper and whispered in your ears, hey Baby boy, would you like to meet Mrs. Mommy and eat some cake and have some milk? to which, you replied YES! with a big grin" "And the next min, what do I see!! It's Baby boy, sitting on my bed! I took you in my arms and thanked Mr. Crane and fed you lots of cake and made you some delicious chocolate milk. You then slept as soon as your head touched the pillow. And that is how you came into our house and into our lives"Baby boy was happy again after listening to the story and Mommy and baby boy sat to eat their cake and sip on some chocolate milk.

The Messy DeskIt was a damp morning and I was sitting inside watching the rain drops splash onto the sand making it wet and slushy to walk on. I took a glance at my desk...The messiest desk ever! I walked over to it and drew a big sigh and to my great, great, great astonishment, a little ant came up and talked to me! She started out as, “Yuck!”, big welcome speech, I know, right? “Noteven an ant can live in this “paradise” if she can't live without a wasp or a roach knocking on her door, just waiting to devour her!”, she spat out in disgust. “Um...Who are you?”, I demanded, nervously hoping she wouldn't have super-natural powers and turn me into some garden lizard. “Oh! where are my manners? I'm Cheenu, the sixth ant of the fifth column, fifty second row, thirty fifth line and ...” “Come on, give me a break! Term holidays just started!”, I thought to myself, getting annoyed at the thought of another math lecture. “And who may you be, oh, four feet tall giant who is standing before me?”, she questioned dramatically. “Oh...I'm Ananya...One millionth person you'd expect to be talking to an ant in this world.”, I murmured, praying fervently that she wouldn't whip out a gun and declare that I was her greatest enemy, like Buzz Lightyear did to Woody in Toy Story 3. “Nice to meet you, Ananya!”, she answered warmly motioning me to shake her antenna.In a minute, she was scurrying across my desk muttering something that sounded like this, “We'll need that thrown away...Ah, yes, a vase here and maybe just a little penholder thing over there, ooh! And a nice little pin-up board on top to remind you to not mess up your desk again. There, perfecto!”. Suddenly, I felt a bright bluish green light grip me and before I knew it, I was whisked away to some unknown land!At first, I was scared, but, when I looked around I just forgot to scream my head off and run away into the horizon. The sky was the brightest blue I had ever seen, the soil was smooth and warm unlike the harsh concrete floor I had been used to, I could smell tulips and lavenders in the fresh air blowing across my face, the crocuses were lovely to just gaze at, the clouds were as white as a brand new layer of snow, the sun shone brightly like a ball of gold. It was breathtaking to behold nature in such a beautiful way!Then and there, I knew that I would never forget this bright blue sky I had seen today. “Enjoying the scenery, are we?”, asked Cheenu, interrupting my pleasant thoughts. “Why have you brought me here?”, I demanded, purposely ignoring her question. “Oh, only because of your desk...”, deliberately letting her voice trail off. “What does this have to do with my desk?”, I questioned, even though I wasn't really surprised. “The only reason why I brought you hear was because there's a clean desk competition held by our mayor, King Antie Anty Anter Antag Anta Anten Antem Antman Antan.”, she replied. “Mr. Antie Anter -wait, what?”, I asked, seriously confused. “We call him King Nine A's.”, she said, smirking at my “slow” thinking process. “Okay...I think.”, I said, a bit unsurely.”Anyways, we have to go enter you into the competition!”, she cried anxiously and grabbed my hand and made me run to wherever she was taking me.“Here we are!”, she cried, sounding a bit nervous but at the same time delighted. I looked up and saw a huge anthill in sitting in front of my eyes, but, this wasn't a normal two feet anthill you'd see on a jungle trek! This anthill was taller than the tallest skyscraper in the world and looked like a fairytale castle, that too, with the most vibrant colors I had ever seen!Cheenu, literally, had to pull me inside as I was so awe-struck by this humongous building made by such tiny things of which we don't take any notice in our lives. When I entered the anthill, or rather the castle, I saw thick red carpets strewn on the floor, portraits and photographs of very posh looking ant ladies with beehive hair-dos, ant sports jocks in sweatshirts with bandanas on their pimple sized heads, ant duchesses and dukes in princely robes holding scepters and curtsying , and old ant grannies in babushkas. I looked ahead and saw an ant dressed in flowing robes, his hair slightly greying, sitting on a throne, holding a scepterin his right hand and the other handcautiously moving to his decorated sword hilt, with a wise look on his face. “Greetings Your Royal Antiness! I have come from the sixth house on Antsfort Avenue in the Desk of Danger and Disgustingness to enter Ananya, um, I mean, this human, standing beside me, into the Desk Competition on the fifth day of the fifth month of the fifth year of the fifth century, um, I mean twenty first century!”, she announced proudly and a bit nervously, bowing down before King Nine A's. “Rise Cheenu, ant from the sixth house on Antsfort Avenue! This human will be allowed to participate in the fourth competition of all ants from the Desk of Danger and Disgustingness which is on the fifth day of the fifth month of the fifth year of the twenty first century!”, he declared grandly. “Yes!”, both of us chorused, slapping a high-five onto each other's palm/sole.When we got back to the human world the first thing I did was stare at my desk for about a millionth of a second before exclaiming, “Cheenu! The fifth of June is tomorrow! How am I supposed to clear this up in one afternoon and evening put together?!”. She simply smiled and let a shrill whistle escape from her lips. I thought that I would be looking at every single dog in the country, the next minute. But instead, every single bird and insect were hopping onto my “oh so messy” desk. “Tweet, tweet! What can we do for you?”, asked one of the sparrows, curtsying cheerfully. “All you have to do is clear up and decorate “Madame Messy's” desk.”, she replied, glancing so sternly at me that I started to shift uncomfortably, ashamed of my “cleanliness”. “Ooh! I love cleaning things up!”, cried out a few beetles and spiders. “Great! Now, let's not be desk potatoes, and get some work done!”, said Cheenu, encouragingly. “Huzzah! Huzzah! It is time do something! Huzzah! Huzzah! But, hide when the telephones go ‘tring'! Huzzah! Huzzah! We love cleaning up! Huzzah! Huzzah!None of us are lazy grumps!”, they all chimed into what was, probably, their “Clean up, clean up, everybody clean up!”. “In a few extremely short hours my desk was the most “natural” looking desk on earth! Mrs. Chibby and Mrs. Chuzzette, the lovely old spiders spun detailed spider webs on the top and corners of my desk, Amanda and Miranda, the weavers, had built pen holders out of their funky nest material and John and Gabby, the beetles, had made glow-in the-dark paper ball lamps hanging from the top! It was awesome and I seriously wished that I had thought of taking a snap using the photo booth app in my laptop!The next day, we presented it and got second place, because some brainy ant computer jock had made a desk out of a computer and attached automatic iTunes to it. But still, I was the winner in the eyes of the cool beetles, wasps, ants, sparrows, parrots and macaws who helped me. Later, as usual, we had to say goodbye. I almost cried like a baby, that day! Cheenu bid a silent farewell and entered her home on Antsfort Avenue in the Desk of Dazzlement and Daintiness. She still visits me every now and then and we take crazy selfies and have some fun during those special moments. Who knows? You might be the next one to find yourself talking to an ant!

The Mango PickleIt was a bright morning and the sun was shining, it seemed as if absolutely nothing could go wrong when, ‘Tring, tring, tring, tring!', the telephone rang. Papa picked it up and answered. “Hello?”, he said. “Is this Ramesh?”, came a gruff voice, and, almost immediately, a frown spread across Papa's face. “Anna! Would you like anything?”, he asked, suddenly becoming polite and, instantly, I knew who it was, it was Mahesh Uncle, Papa's most feared elder brotherwho always managed to find fault in things no matter what. “I have some work to do in Chennai and I don't want to stay in one of those cheap hotels where they make the curry too spicy and the curd too sour. So, I want to stay in your house for two days, is that alright?”, Mahesh Uncle continued. “O-Of course, Anna!”, Papa replied, he was trembling all over, by now. “Good. Thank you!”, he answered and put the receiver down. “Gauri! Gauri! Anna's coming to stay tomorrow!”, he yelled, running into the kitchen where Ma was making dosas and chutney. “What?!But, that means I have to make your mother's spicy mango pickle that he loves!”, Ma cried out, who knew Mahesh Uncle was so hard to please? “Arre!Just find the recipe and make it!”, Papa answered, trying to make it sound like it was the easiest thing to do. “But, the maid accidentally threw it out, two months ago!”, Ma yelled back, frantically pacing back and forth until she realized that the dosa on the pan had become burnt. “Then go ask Shalini Akka!”, Paparetorted, literally stomping out of the kitchen, by the way, Shalini Akka was the launderer who was always humming whenever she was seen with a heavy bag of dirty clothes on her head.When we were just sitting down for lunch, Ma saw her strolling down the street humming one of her usual tunes. “Shalini Akka! Shalini Akka, wait!”, Ma called out from the balcony, waving her hands wildly. “Who called me?”, she wondered out loud and looked up at Ma. She was at our door, before you can blow out your birthday candles. “What happened, Amma?”, she asked innocently looking around. “Do you know how to make mango pickle?”, Ma almost screamed, desperately. I think Shalini Akka, who's hearing and eyesight was not to good since she was a bit old, heard as mango halwa. She quickly dropped her laundry bag at the doorstep and walked into the kitchen. She put all kinds of things into it while Ma sat on the sofa muttering thankfully.Here is the list of the ingredients Shalini Akka put into our delicious mango halwa:* freshly chopped up mangoes* salt (she thought it was sugar)* peas (she thought they were cardamoms)* salty butter milk (she thought it was milk)* a stack of cheese (she thought it was butter)Shalini Akka walked out beaming with pride and happily dusting her hands. Ma didn't even look at it before closing the jar with a lid. After one hour, Ma started to fret. “Shalini Akka has an uncontrollable sweet tooth. What if she made it too sweet? Mahesh Anna won't like that. I'll call Mrs. Vohra from next door to check if it's too sweet and fix it if it is.”. In five minutes, Ms. Vohra, our neighbor, came and opened the pot while Ma was glamouring herself for a friend's wedding. Mrs. Vohra was inexperienced when it came to the art of cooking and didn't realize that it was actually mango halwa, only that this mango “pickle” was too sweet like Ma had thought. Immediately, she got down to work, here are the ingredients she put into our mango “pickle”:* sliced green mangoes* hot chili powder* whole chillies* saltDone! Another version of our mango pickle was completed! The moment Mrs. Vohra left, she left Ma in a pensive mood. “What if she made it too spicy? Mrs. Vohra loves spice what if she put extra spice into it? Mahesh Anna won't like that either. Let me ask Mr. Rastogi to come and check if it's okay.”, she thought out loud and her hands flew to the telephone. In one second, the doorbell rang. And in an old man came shuffling with a sturdy wooden stick held firmly in his wrinkled hand. Mr. Rastogi was old and experienced in cooking but, unfortunately, his hearing and sight weren't as good as his hands. Next minute, he was in the kitchen stirring and chopping and adding every single ingredient, here is exactly what he added:* bitter gourd (he probably thought it was an oversized green chili)* ketchup (he probably thought it was chili sauce)* green bell pepper (he probably thought it was a green mango)And yet, another version of our mango pickle was completed! He went away with a triumphant grin on his face, seriously, I thought that his jaws would break if he smiled any longer!Ma put it in the fridge and crossed her fingers for the very best. Next afternoon, Mahesh Uncle arrived. His “grand” entrance was made by yelling at the taxi driver for placing the fare too high, while the poor driver was shivering from head to toe. “Hello, Mahesh Anna!”, Papa greeted him, putting on a polite tone, while Ma stood behind him with her hands folded respectfully. “Is lunch ready? Have you made mango pickle?”, he demanded, deliberately ignoring both of them. “Yes, Anna. Please have a seat.”, Ma gestured him towards the dining table. Later, Ma brought the mango pickle and served it with curd rice. I hoped fervently that he wouldn't storm off anddeclare that he would never come back. Ma produced a shiny silver spoon for Uncle to use. He scooped half a spoon of the mango “pickle” and shoved it into his mouth. And then, came the unexpected reaction that I hadn't even dared to hope would happen. “Mmm!Delicious! Superb! This is the best mango pickle I've ever tasted in ages! I don't really think I want my mother's mango pickle anymore, ah, yes! From now on, you will make only this mango pickle and nothing else!”, he beamed at all of us, while, shoving another spoonful of the “pickle” in his mouth. Oh My God! Who could ever like such a thing! Then again, instead of complaining, I should be thankful he didn't box Pa's ears. Maybe you should try this recipe!(Warning: Don't really make it! It tastes horrible! I just tasted it!)

Dear... well, you know who you are. And it's not like you're ever going to see this letter.Miss told me that I had to be your mentor and show you around because you are a new student. I didn't know what a ‘mentor' is, so I looked it up in the dictionary. Anyway, she didn't tell me anything about that.Ali and Gaurav and Sumi and Rani, they kept asking me about it when we were going home from school. I told them that I didn't know what they were talking about, but that's not true. How can I not know?See, you made me lie to my friends.Yours sincerely,Me Hi again,Ma says that it is not good to stare at people, but I can see that everyone stares at you. They stare at me too because I have to hang around with you and be your ‘mentor'. Why did you come to our school? Why couldn't you continue going to whatever school you went to earlier?Do you know what happened yesterday? Gaurav, Ali and two of their friends from Class VII cornered me after school to ask about you-know-what. They took my bag and wouldn't give it back. Then they threw it into the thicket by the side of the road and I had to scramble down into the mountainside to get it. I tore my shirt and Ma was angry with me.This is all your fault.Me Hello,I keep telling them that they can ask you whatever they want to know. What's the point of asking me? How am I supposed to know why you have that thing or how it works?To be really honest, I can't say I'm not curious myself or that I don't have the same questions the others are asking me. Yes, I noticed it the first day when you came into the classroom. I saw how you did everything with one hand and how your left hand never moved. At first I couldn't tell what the problem was. Then, when I came closer, I saw that something wasn't quite right. It looked weird, like it was covered in plastic or something. Then I thought it was a toy hand. It took me some time to understand.Also, I saw what happened at lunch.See you,Me Hello,My oldest sister, the one who's studying engineering in Delhi, called today. I told her, “There's a girl in my class and she has a fake hand,” and she said that the term is “prosthetic hand”.Listen, I have some advice for you. You may be new and all, but if you want people to stop staring at you and talking about you, you have to stop standing in the corner all the time. Why don't you play with us? Why don't you come on the swing? Everyone loves the swing. It's been two weeks, and you can jolly well come by yourself. I am not going to be your minder for ever.Sometimes I don't know what to say to you.Me Hi again,After the lunch incident that day, I've been watching you. I'm just curious. Is it weird to have one hand? Is it only your hand or is your entire arm fake, sorry, prosthetic?Today, Sumi, Gaurav and I walked to school together. They were playing a game they made up called One-Hand Challenge. The rule is, you have to do things with one hand. Like, packing your bag or buttoning your shirt. Sumi couldn't tie her shoelaces and she forgot about it and tripped and fell. She got a cut on her chin. Miss saw it and, even though she put some antiseptic cream on it, she scolded Sumi for being careless. “You can't run around in the mountains with your shoelaces untied. What will happen if you fall while going home or something?”I think adults worry too much.Yours truly,Me Hi,Do you know what a coincidence is? It's like when you talk about something and the same thing happens sometime later in a completely unrelated way.In my last letter, I was telling you about Sumi and the shoelaces, and then, today, I saw you tying your shoelaces. Wow, that was awesome! I think you did it faster than I can do it with two hands. If you were my friend, I would challenge you to a shoelace-tying race. Or no, maybe I would ask you to teach me how to do it with one hand.I have to confess, I did try to tie my shoelace with one hand when I got home. But it's impossible. How do you do it? Maybe I'll ask you tomorrow.Curious,Me Hi,So, after what you said, I've tried to do a lot of things with only one hand, but it's so difficult! I still don't get how you do it, like having a bath, wearing your clothes, packing your bag. Since that day at lunch, I did realize that you have to do some things differently, but it's not like you don't do almost everything the rest of us do.Listen, I'm sorry about what I said earlier... about playing with us. I guess you were just feeling shy. And also about coming on the swing. I tried and it's hard to get your balance if you don't hold it with two hands. But you're great in the jungle gym, even if you don't hang from the bars, and you can run really fast, even faster than Ali, who won the first prize at Sports Day.Bye,Me Hello!That movie was really funny, no? I laughed so much that my stomach hurt and it was like I was crying. I always like it when they show movies in school. It means no classes.Last time, before you came to our school, they showed this movie about a tiger cub who got lost. It was quite scary, mostly because it was a true story. Later someone found it and managed to get it back to its family. True stories like that are called documentaries, did you know that? Tiger cubs are cute, no?Last year, there was a puppy near our house. It was very cute too, but it grew up and then it wasn't so cute any more.Got to go now!Me Hello, hello!Did you know? I was so surprised when I saw you on the bus. I had no idea my father worked in the same place as yours! But I'm so happy you came for the office picnic, because last year when they took us, there were no other children my age and I got really bored.Okay, I'm really tired, so I'm going now. See you in school tomorrow.Me Hi,I think I should warn you, Principal Sir becomes slightly insane whenever Annual Day comes along. He might yell at you — he yells at everyone — so don't take it personally. My ma says that he's under a lot of pressure because our Annual Day performance reflects on him.I'm not sure what that means, but he does look stressed out. Did you see his hair? It was like he touched a loose wire and got an electric shock! Though I think it was very mean of Rani to put a frog in his chair.Okay, I'm going now before he catches me writing this letter!Me Hey,Your new hand is so cool! No offence, but the old one was a bit boring. It was just... there. The new one is like magic, and you can move the fingers and grip with it! I hope you didn't mind that I asked to shake hands. I just said it before I could think. Maybe tomorrow we can do some experiments to find out if you can lift stuff with it.Oh! I just realized, the last couple of letters I wrote to you, I didn't mention your prosthetic hand at all. It's like I forgot all about it and wanted to tell you so many other things. The funny thing is, I'm not that curious about your hand any more. I don't know why.Your friend,Me THE FRIEND-O-METER QUIZHow good are you at helping people fit in? Take our Friend-o-Meter quiz to find out!1. Your teacher asks you to show the new student in school around. What do you feel?a. Fantastic! A new friend!b. Why can't they figure things out themselves?c. Uh oh...2. A girl in your class walks with a limp. The others laugh at her. What do you do?a. Nothing – it's none of your business.b. Tell her to ignore them – they're mean.c. Ask your classmates to imagine if they were different. 3. Your new classmate is having trouble with his lessons. What can you do?a. Tell the brainiest student in class to lend him her notes.b. Tell the teacher – it's her job to help him.c. Ask him if you could help him with his work.4. The new girl in class is rather shy. She doesn't play with anyone. What can you do?a. Let her be – she'll join in when she's ready.b. Call her over and make her join in the games.c. Go and sit next to her – maybe she'll start a conversation. Get your score:Q1.a - 1; b - 2 ; c - 3Q2.a - 2; b - 1 ; c - 3Q3.a - 3; b - 2; c - 1Q4.a - 2; b - 1; c - 3Now add it up. If you've scored... 4-6 points:You are a born friend, always ready to lend a hand. You don't wait for people to ask for help – you're already there, waiting to give it to them.7-9 points:You are an independent person and feel that people should be too. But that doesn't mean you don't care – you just don't want to force anyone.10-12 points:You might be a little shy, but you are kind-hearted too. You'll do whatever you can indirectly to help others and make them feel at ease.

Jamun lived in a pretty little house perched on top of a cliff. One fine morning, she looked out of the window and felt unbearably sad. The day had dawned nice and bright, and here she was, stuck at home. You see, Jamun was recovering from a recent illness, a particularly nasty bout of fever.Her doctor, a stern man with an unruly mop of curly hair had given her strict instructions: no mischief, plenty of rest. So what if she couldn't go outside. Her thoughts certainly could. She closed her eyes and imagined herself out in the open, surrounded by lovely pink flowers, birds chirping away merrily. Just thinking about them made her smile.Oh, how she wished she could be out, too! Well, one thing Jamun didn't miss was school.What use did she have for books and lessons when she had grandpa? Her patient, loving, knowledgeable grandpa. He knew all that there was to know and Jamun simply loved listening to him. When she couldn't make head or tail of something at school, she turned to Grandpa.When her teacher scolded her for not paying attention, she ran to Grandpa.With his kind words and encouraging smile, Grandpa always made her tears disappear in a flash.So, when she expressed a desire to go outside, he had an idea! He got her a sturdy little wheelchair. Firmly secured in it, she could go out without so much as straining herself. Jamun wasn't too sure about it.What would her friends say, she wondered.Would they find it strange? Or worse, make fun of her? Grandpa being Grandpa had idea ready.He wheeled Jamun out and headed straight to school.On the way, they met Chinkoo.He was rather taken aback at the sight.What was Jamun doing in that strange looking thing. Reading his thoughts, Grandpa sounded the prayer wheel. Clinggggggg!Chinkoo looked at it with great interest."Lucky me, I got this prayer wheel for one whole day. And all I had to do was ferry Jamun around, said Grandpa with glee.A gleam came into Chinkoo's eyes. The prayer wheel could be his. All he had to do was wheel Jamun around. That wouldn't be so hard, he thought excitedly. He happily took over the prayer wheel and the wheelchair and away they went.Down the glistening meadows, up the narrow trails.Jamun had never had so much fun. Everyone wanted to take Jamun out!after much discussion, it was finally decided: they would draw lots every day and one lucky boy or girl would wheel Jamun around.Thanks to Grandpa and his prayer wheel, Jamun had her wish. Soon, word spread of the prayer wheel that came free with the wheelchair.Her friends could barely conceal their excitement.The moment school was over, they flocked to her house. There was Bhola and Monkoo and Pia and Gehnaa and many more friends from school. Everyone wanted to wheel Jamun around.After much discussion, it was finally decided:there would be a lucky draw every day and one lucky boy or girl would wheel Jamun around!Thanks to Grandpa and his prayer wheel, Jamun had her wish!

Ranjit had been waiting all evening for his parents to return from work. He generally would manage himself from 7pm onwards until 8pm. That is after the nanny has left and he is alone at home waiting for his parents. He was 11 years and thought he could manage himself for an hour by himself. But today he was feeling uneasy. He wanted his mum or dad to be around He was at the window for some time now. Mum would anytime be home. He kept telling it to himself. He was not keen to watch TV; the activity he does when nanny leaves for her home. Dinner was cooked but he was not really hungry. He remembered on his good friend Meenu who would love seeing the stars. She had shown how the sky looked beautiful from her home window. He too was staying in a tall building and his home was on the 19th floor. But all he could stare was traffic, buildings and and city lights. Meenu was a good friend who helped him in his studies and he liked talking to her. Today she wasn't at her home too. Her mother answered the phone and told him she has gone out to play with the apartment friends.She asked him if he was alright as Meenu's mum knew he would be alone at home this time. He said he was doing fine and kept the phone. He just wanted someone to be with him in his home. Just then the door bell rang. His mom was there. Ranjit rushed to hug his mum.Talking about the nanny and sensing perhaps Ranjit was feeling lonely without company, His mom told him " I will tell Sheela to be here for the next few days until I come or request her to drop you by 6pm to my office. Is that good. Ranjit was feeling about the change and was now smiling. He felt good and post dinner read a lot of stories with his mum and dad. The day ended well.

Have you heard of the World Wide Web? No? Never mind.Now, have you heard of the Internet? Yes? Great!But what IS the Internet? Did you say “I am not quite sure, but I know it has something to do with computers”? You're right – it does. But that's not the whole answer.What's the WHOLE answer then? Hmmm. We need an EXPERT to answer that. And guess what - I know JUST the person! She's usually to be found near a computer, so let's go straight to the computer now. Hi Nettikutti! Here is a group of kids to meet you! Come on out, come on out, wherever you are!THERE you are! Go on, kids, say hello! And don't be fooled by her cuteness and her size – she holds a LOT of information in her little head! So Nettikutti, here's what everyone wants to know - What IS the Internet?Ooooh. BIG question. Let's see how I can put it simply.The Internet (short for ‘INTERconnected NETworks') is a large, large, LARGE collection of computers from all over the world that are connected to each other. The computers could be gigantic computers (the kind research laboratories or governments own), desktop computers (the kind you see in banks and computer centres), laptops (the kind people sling across their shoulders and carry with them), cellphones (the kind that ring so loudly and annoyingly in movie halls), and even the little music players with the itty-bitty headphones that seem to grow out of people's ears. All these computers are connected with each other either by real wires and cables - cables that run above the ground, underground, even under the sea (big computers) - OR by wireless signals (laptops, cellphones, music players).So you see, you don't have to be sitting in one place and have your computer plugged into an electric socket to be on the Internet – you can even be connected to the world while you are on the move! That's it? We thought the Internet was about talking to friends and downloading film songs and booking movie tickets and looking for information for school projects and finding the telephone number of a hospital!But that's not the Internet. All THAT is part of something truly magical, something called... wait for it.... the World Wide Web! This World Wide Web - let's call it W3 for short – is a large, large, LARGE collection of what are called PAGES (there are some 40 BILLION public pages on the W3 now!). A page could contain information in the form of words, numbers, photographs, songs, video clips, and more. This collection of pages (or the W3) ‘sits' on the Internet, in those millions of computers and cell phones and music players. The Internet is a network of networks made up of computers, laptops, tablets and mobile phones. W3 is a collection of connected pages, that is on the Internet.So the W3 is NOT the Internet itself, but one PART of it, the coolest part. If you think of the Internet as a restaurant, then the W3 is the most popular dish on the menu. And the spoon that helps you dig into this dish and get to your favourite bits of it is called a ‘Web Browser'. Oooooh! Now you've made us hungry, Nettikutti! But do tell us more about what makes the W3 so popular.Sure! The W3 is super-exciting because it includes:Email – which allows you to send letters to anyone anywhere in the world – and have them receive it in under a minute! The same letter – if you were sending it to someone in America, say, would have taken 15 days to reach him if you had mailed it through a post office. And it would have cost you a lot of money too. But email is free! Search – which helps you find useful – and useless! – information on a million different subjects.You may want to know which states the River Ganga flows through, or see what the Statue of Liberty looks like. You may want to hear the latest film song of your favourite actor, or watch an episode of a serial that you missed. You may want to find out the score in the T20 World Cup, or see if there are tickets available on the Mumbai-Pune train tomorrow.If someone whose computer is connected to the Internet, somewhere in the world, has decided to share this information with the world and put it on the W3, you will be able to find it - instantly! And for free! But Nettikutti, HOW do you find the page that you want, out of all those billions of pages?Easy! Each page also has a unique ‘address' which helps your Web Browser find it, just like your home address helps the postman to find your house. So if you know the page's address, you can go to it immediately.What if you don't know the page's address? No problem! You can use a wonderful service called a ‘Search Engine', which also sits on the W3, to help you. Sharing – which helps you share ANYTHING you want – a song you love, your dog's picture, a clever way to solve a difficult maths problem, your big idea for keeping our streets free of litter – with everyone in the world! No single person owns the Internet or the W3, and no government has authority over it*, so you don't need to ask ANYONE for permission before you share.Think about how cool that is! Until now, you had books and movies and television and newspapers giving you information, ‘talking' to you, but YOU couldn't talk back to THEM. With the W3, everything has changed – you can listen, and YOU CAN HAVE YOUR SAY too. And you don't have to be an important person or a grown-up to do this. THIS is what makes the W3 so fantastic – it is a truly free and open AND democratic system – it gives EVERYONE who is connected to the Internet a VOICE.*Governments do 'control' the internet in their own countries, however. Governments can even 'switch off' the internet, so that their citizens cannot access it, and some have actually done so for short or long periods. Wow! That's great, Nettikutti! Now, on a completely different tack – we understand why the first two Ws in W3 stand for World Wide, but why is it called a Web? Isn't it the INTERNET that is actually a web?Good question! You're right about the Internet being a web (because of all those computers being connected to each other), but SO IS THE W3. Let me explain.Remember those billions of pages that the W3 is made of? THEY are all connected, or ‘hyperlinked', to each other as well! That means you can go from one page to another almost endlessly! Do you see now how the W3 is ALSO a web, a HU-MUN-GOUS web of knowledge and information and entertainment for all humankind to enjoy and use? We do, we do! Now we have to have to have to know - who was the superbrain who came up with such a wonderful idea?I thought you'd never ask! For the answer to that question, we have to go back in time some 20 years, to a nuclear research laboratory called CERN in Switzerland. Many scientists there, and across other labs in Europe, were working on projects together, but there was no way to share their work with each other quickly and easily. They would have to actually travel to each others' labs, or use the post office and courier services, to let their teams know how far they had progressed. One of the scientists at CERN, Tim Berners-Lee, was getting a little fed up of this, so he decided to figure out a way to share information better and faster. He came up with a big idea called ‘hypertext' – a way of linking information on computers together – to do this.The idea worked really well for CERN, and everyone was really happy. And THEN - Tim Berners-Lee had his SECOND big idea. He felt his invention would benefit other people as well, and that it would be selfish to limit it to CERN. He talked to the authorities at CERN, and persuaded them to let him share the idea of hypertext with other scientists all over the world, for free. They agreed! Berners-Lee shared his idea, and urged everyone he shared it with to improve it or add to it as they wished.The idea of being able to access and share information from anywhere on earth instantly was SO powerful and SO attractive that a LOT of people began to use hypertext.Since anyone could use their own ideas to make it better, people all over the world felt they 'owned' the internet, that it was THEIRS. Which was a wonderful thing. By 1993, the W3 had EXPLODED, with millions of people beginning to use it. Today, more than TWO BILLION people use the W3 in some way – that is almost one-third of all the human beings on the planet!Hmmmm. Life would be very different today if Tim Berners-Lee had decided not to be so generous, right?Absolutely! So don't you think we should cheer both him and the W3 with a big Hip, Hip Hurray?We should! We should, Nettikutti!Here we go. To Berners-Lee and the W3 - Hip Hip...... HURRAYYYYYY!

How many stories of ordinary people do you know?She was an ordinary girl. Ordinary intelligence. Ordinary looks. Nothing exceptional, brilliant, or one-of-a-kind about her. She was like a few of you and most of me. Very very average.One won't think that a story can be wasted on her. And yet.... Her abbu and ammi loved her as parents do. Her friends treated her as friends do. Sometimes she sulked and cried. Sometimes she joked and laughed. She did what was expected of her. She avoided what was forbidden to her.Her name was Nilofar.Ni-lo-furr, as she would say, if people asked her who she was. Not that many did. Nilofar had a dream. It would visit her again and again. If ever she woke up before it was complete, the next day she would start from exactly where she had left. She controlled that dream as it were. At times she wondered if indeed it was a dream!There was a huge kite, bigger than the biggest lake. No one but Nilofar knew about it. Effortlessly it flew from the known to the unknown skies. All colours ran through the kite like haunted rivers. Nervous yellow peeped from the right and leapt on to bold orange at the left. Deep hopeful green jetted down the middle, embraced the silky silver, felt the angry brown, before losing itself into sleepy blue. One strong breeze and all the colours would begin to shiver. Nilofar, however, would dance in the sky like a fearless boat, unmindful of the terrifying tides of a tumultuous sea. She would notice the inviting football in the middle of the vast field and run like a warrior and kick it with the power unfamiliar to her. Before the swoosh sound of the net receiving the ball could end, she would jump from one tree to another, with a group of pigeons, koels, and sparrows resting on her stretched arms. One summersault and she would be on the back of her favourite black horse that would carry her from magical mountains to the inviting plains. She is removing the tufts off her face. She is flying. It's not a kite. It's a whole world. It's freedom. So much to see. So much to do.“Nilofar!”The wind is strong. She is hanging by the tail of the kite; it's beginning to come down. Grudgingly. Ever so Slowly.“Nilofar.” Now she can see the familiar bazaar, spot the fragrance shop where her abbu worked.... She is above the school where children from her neighbourhood studied.... She hated the boy from this biggest house in her locality; he always made faces at her.... Should she scare him a little? She wonders. Bicycle shop, subzi market, bus-stop, Hanuman Mandir.... The mosque is about to come. She tries to cover her head. The wind is still very strong. She can hear the call of the first azan. The kite is getting smaller as it is coming closer to the earth.“Nilofar”!!!Oh the garments shop! Nilofar turns toward it with the swiftness of a fish, snatches a skirt she had cried for all her life.... The shopkeeper runs after her.... She tries to fly away, without looking behind, she is trying harder... the kite is getting smaller... hardly able to bear her weight... He is going to catch her any moment now. She is breathless. Her eyes are about to well up. She can't look behind anymore. Suddenly a hand is on her shoulder; she shrieks. It is ammi. "Get up, betu jaan"

Shreya was not a happy girl. She had a nose that was as big as a mango and eyes that were smaller than watermelon seeds. Everybody at school said that she looked strange. "You look like a circus clown!" They would tell her and laugh.At home, Shreya's mother and father were nice to her. Father would come home and pat her head when he got home in the evening. He always asked, "What has my little Shreyu been up to today?"Mother was a painter. Every day, she taught Shreya how to draw something or the other. Today she said, "Shreyu, come learn how to draw an elephant."Shreya did not come to her. She was sad. Roshni had made her cry today. "Mother, may I take a walk outside?" Shreya asked and ran outside as soon as she said yes. Shreya walked fast. She had long, thin legs. She wanted to forget today. So she started running. Rina Aunty was standing nearby. She called out, "What is wrong, child?" Shreya did not stop.Shreya finally stopped running when she reached the pond. She threw off her shoes. She sat down. A bird was watching her. "Hello, bird," she said. It flew away.Poor Shreya looked into the clear water of the pond. “Even the bird does not like me,” she thought. She was tired from crying. Her head was hurting. So she took off her sweater and put it under her head. A few minutes later, Shreya was sound asleep.The bird woke her up when it was almost dinner time. Shreya put on her sweater. She got up. Suddenly, she heard someone. “You are beautiful. Do you know that?” Shreya looked around.“Here, in the water,” said the voice. Shreya looked. Her eyes became huge. It was a little fairy. She looked friendly. Shreya felt her mouth turn into a smile. Nobody had called her beautiful before. She said thank you.The angel disappeared. Bubbles danced around the water. Shreya stood there, wondering what was going to happen next. Then she saw her own reflection in the water."My eyes are not so small! Oh, my nose is quite nice." Shreya went home with a smile. The next day, Shreya smiled all day. "I looked so beautiful in the pond yesterday," she thought. Her classmates did not say anything mean either.The teacher said, "Glad to see you smiling, Shreya."On her way home, Shreya stopped at the pond. She kept her bag down and smiled at the water.A happy face looked back at her. The eyes and nose were not ugly. The smile made the face more beautiful. Shreya's own smile became wider.She could not stop smiling! Shreya visited the pond every day. She smiled every day. Nobody called her ugly again.Her classmates wished that they could be so happy.But the magic pond was Shreya's secret.

‘Choon Choon cheewn cheewn! What you ate? What you drank? Where you went? What you saw? I lost my bangles. That little boy who cries a lot is sick again. Don't go, you just came! Can I fly with you? Wait, I will get my blanket...'Chimni was three years old. She was a fair, tall and thin girl with silky brownish-black hair and a gaze that confused all the adults around her. She could stare for a long time, without really seeing anything. Or so the grown-ups thought. They could never guess what went on in her head every now and then. Chimni lived in an orphanage with eight other children. All the caretakers were didis. The owner was everyone's Mummy. There was no Papa. Every now and then some couples would show up and become friendly with one of the children. The didis would tell that child, ‘this is your Mummy now and this is your Papa'.Then the couple would take that child ‘home'. Some times the children would miss their departed friend for a long time. Some times the arrival of a new friend in the orphanage would ease their pain.-‘These kids know now what a home is, what Papa and Mummy are.'-‘It's good that the younger ones forget things quickly'.The didis talked among themselves and did their chores. -‘Imagine what Chimni would do if she understood more!'Chimni appeared to be just like other children – hungry for love, tender with younger children, fiercely competitive with others.And yet there was something unique about her.She was attracted to birds more than any other child in the orphanage. She would watch them for hours if she could. In fact, didis thought, she even walked and talked like a sparrow, or Chimni, in Marathi.Chimni often talked to the birds that came close to her window. Waving vigorously, she would ask several questions and tell many tales to them in a language known only to her and the birds. ‘Choon Choon cheewn cheewn! What you ate? What you drank? Where you went? What you saw? Can I fly with you? Wait, I will get my blanket....'-‘She talks to the birds.'-‘I have seen her sing to them.'-‘She may have been a bird in her previous life.'-‘She is definitely a bird in this life.'The didis would talk among themselves and do their chores.And one day everything changed.No one knows if Chimni saw it coming. Tears were rolling down the cheeks of didis. The older children looked sad. The young ones were hidden behind the doors.-‘They are too young to take all this', explained one of the caretakers. -‘Get a thali and kumkum,' the owner of the orphanage called out. ‘Our daughter is going away. Take her in your lap and sit; we will do a little pooja.'-‘But, she is going to her home,' muttered the father-to-be.-‘Yes', managed the mother-to-be, visibly choking on all this.-‘Why is everyone looking so sad? Get the sweets; give them to children.'-‘Chimni, you are looking beautiful, my darling! What a lovely frock Papa and Mummy have brought for you.Chimni was quiet, very quiet. Her eyes were piercing through every pair of eyes that dared to look at hers. The new Papa stretched his hands to pick her up. Chimni did not resist, just tilted her head away from the room and looked towards the small garden outside the veranda. There were no birds there. Mummy was holding Chimni's bag; it had a few of her ‘necessary' things, including the blanket. Chimni looked up in the sky. It was empty. There were no birds there.The minute she was put in the car, Chimni yowled out loud, her hands stretched towards the orphanage building.-‘Let's get going,' said Papa with a lump in his throat.-‘I am feeling guilty, said Mummy, with a lump in her throat.-‘It's ok, my little one; don't cry, we are going home,' comforted Papa.Unable to speak, Mummy kissed Chimni and held her tight. Chimni wailed inconsolably. Sometimes she would look at both of them. Sometimes she would look behind.Her face looked red. The eyes looked swollen.Water was offered and refused. New toys were given and rejected. Finally, Chimni pointed towards her bag. The bag was opened. She grabbed her little blanket and, hugging it, fell asleep in no time.Mummy and Papa were worried how she would adjust. They wanted a child, a girl, they could love and who could soak in their love. But now they were worried – what if she continues to miss her friends and didis and cry all the time?Days went by. Every day they were learning a few things about her – what she liked, what she didn't; what excited her, what scared her and so on.Every day Chimni was learning new things about Mummy and Papa – what they liked, what they didn't; what excited them, what scared them and so on.She would laugh with them, play with them, and go out with them. One morning when they woke up they did not see Chimni in her bed.‘Where is she?' Mummy rushed out to the bathroom. Papa followed. She wasn't there. She was not in the study. The drawing room and the kitchen too were empty. The main door was shut still.‘Where could she go from a seventh floor apartment?' There was panic in Papa's voice. Mummy was in tears now. Both ran towards the other bathroom that had a door to a balcony. The balcony door was ajar. Before they could enter the balcony, they heard choon chewn choon.‘Papa! Mummy! See, a Chimni has come.'There was a little sparrow on the balcony railing – not even a foot away from her. Chimni was standing there, holding the railing, surrounded by an excited looking sparrow, who didn't seem scared of her at all. Mummy hugged her. Papa embraced her and Mummy both. And together, Papa and Mummy said, 'indeed, a Chimni has come!'Chimni freed herself, walked towards the railing, bent her head up towards the ledge of the roof. She spotted a bunch of sparrows and went on:‘Choon Choon cheewn cheewn! What you ate? What you drank? Where you went? What you saw....'

Once upon a time there was a mango tree. The mango tree did not have any friend. He was very sad. He was so sad that he started to cry. Then one day a bird came and sat on the tree. The bird asked the tree why he was crying. The tree did not tell the bird why he was crying. So the bird just sat there.

One day, Raju, Dimpy and Pinky went to watch a movie. They were very happy to finish their exams and were waiting to go for a movie. When they heard about Jungle Raja movie, they were very happy. When they were watching the movie, instead of hearing the tiger's roar, they were hearing a frogs's croaking noise. They were wondering what happened to the mighty tiger. They were curios. And suddenly they see Sharma uncle jumping off his seat screaming. And alas, what they see? A on his seat. All burst out laughing. Adventure movie of Jungle Raja became a comedy movie of Frogiee Raja.

Blue skies and calm waters — a perfect day for diving! We set out in a little boat, hoping for a BIG adventure! When we reached the dive site, we carefully checked all our equipment and put on our fins and masks. As soon as we were underwater, we were greeted by a school of yellowback fusiliers. There were so many different creatures to see around this large table coral: oriental sweetlips, parrotfish, batfish, and even a beautifully-patterned nudibranch.To know more about the creatures marked out in bold lettering, turn to the back section of this book. This trumpetfish changed colour to try and blend in with a school of yellow tang, but you can pick him out easily enough, can't you? It's a good thing we kept a safe distance from this lionfish. The spines on his back can be quite poisonous! These clownfish carefully guarded their sea anemone home, but finally agreed to let me take a few pictures. We saw a honeycomb moray eel having its teeth cleaned by cleaner wrasses, and another pair even offered to give us a scrub! There were triggerfish and sea urchins.We even saw a coral grouper and a reef octopus playing hide-and-seek. The octopus won the game. They're masters of disguise.Pipefish are great at disguise too. Can you spot the two ghost pipefish in this picture? We came across a couple of whitetip reef sharks resting near the bottom. They're pretty harmless, so we swam in for a closer look. We followed this hawksbill turtle for a while as he looked around the reef for a nice sea sponge to lunch on. As we made our way back to the boat, we were thrilled to see a manta ray ‘flying' through the water with two remora fish in tow. And just when we thought this dive couldn't possibly get any better, we sighted a dugong grazing on some sea grass. What an incredible experience! I can't wait to go diving again! Corals are both plants and animals. Thousands of little algae live inside corals, and give them energy to grow. They have hard outer skeletons and grow into many different shapes.Plankton is the main source of food for many sea creatures. They are a mix of algae, bacteria, tiny animals, and the eggs and larvae of larger animals that float about with the ocean currents.Feather stars may look like plants, but they're really animals. They use their feather-like ‘arms' to catch and eat bits of floating plankton. Parrotfish have strong teeth that form a parrot-like beak, which they use to scrape algae off hard coral. Some species don't mind eating bits of coral as well, and they later poop out a fine sand that washes up on land to form beautiful white beaches.Clownfish and sea anemones live together and help each other. The clownfish help the anemones by cleaning their tentacles and luring other fish for the anemone to eat. The anemones, in turn, allow the clownfish to hide among their poisonous tentacles without stinging them.Cleaner wrasses are small fish that keep bigger fish clean by feeding on their parasites and dead skin. The bigger fish recognise the wrasses by their colours and the dance-like way they move. The reef octopus can hide by changing its colour and texture. It makes its home in holes in the reef, or buries itself in the sand.Ghost pipefish can be found in pairs, floating with their heads down and hidden among sea grass, corals or feather stars. Like the reef octopus, they can change colour to blend in perfectly.The whitetip reef shark has a thin body, broad head, and white tips on its dorsal and tail fin. They hunt at night, and sleep through most of the day. The hawksbill turtle has a flat body, a shell with jagged edges, and a sharp, curving mouth that looks like a hawk's beak.Manta rays are huge fish with wing-like fins on the sides of their bodies. These large fins help them swim gracefully through the water. On some manta rays, the distance from one wing tip to the other can reach up to 23 feet!The dugong is a vegetarian marine mammal. Its favourite food is sea grass, which it is able to graze on with its specially-shaped snout. Dugongs are also called sea cows.

River and Sun were best friends.Each morning they met each other with a gurgle and a giggle. As the Sun went across the sky, the River would go about her work. Both talked to each other all the time. One very hot day River was exhausted.All day animals and fish and children had asked her for help. First the fish asked her, 'Nadi mausi, please take us till the shady place near the trees. It's too hot here and we are very tired.'So the river flowed gently towards the shady place near the trees, and the fish were able to rest. Then the children arrived.'Nadi mausi, it is so hot! Can we jump and play in your cool water?'River was tired but she said to them, 'Sure.' Then the animals came.'Nadiji, adaab. How are you today? It is so hot! We've come to drink water earlier because we are so thirsty.''Adaab, my friends. Please have a drink. You must have come from very far.' River was tired now. Just then Sun called out teasingly, 'Nadi mausi, no time for me today!'River was not in the mood for jokes.'Mausi? I'm not your mausi! Don't bug me. All day I have to do this and that and then you have the cheek to call me mausi!' Baap re! Sun got a start.'Array! I'm just pulling your leg. Why are you so snappy?'River got angry. 'Snappy! You can't see how much I've been working!' Saying this, she turned away. Sun was surprised. She quickly went behind some light clouds.She watched River and saw that she was moving slowly now - as if she was really tired. She realised it had been a hard day. Later, River called out, 'Sun. I'm sorry. Did you feel very bad?'Sun came out from behind the cloud. 'No yaar! But you never scold me, so I was a little scared. From now on I'll be very respectful of you.' Saying this, Sun giggled.River gurgled. 'You! Respectful! Ha ha! We'll see!' From that day, whenever Sun has to rise in the morning, she does so slowly. First she sends some light into the sky to gently wake River. Then she peeps out.'Psst', she says to River. 'May I come out now?''Ha ha', gurgles River. 'As if you need my permission.' Through the day, these two friends talk, following each other through the world.And at the end of the day, the Sun says, 'Good Night mataji' to the River and they both laugh at the joke.Even today, they are best friends.

Beena's friends were all sleeping. They were making a lot of noise.Hoiinnnnkkkkhoinnnkkk, snored the pigs.Keekkkeek, snored the mice. Ssssssss snored the hens. Do your friends snore, dear reader? "We could not sleep all night," said Minti Uncle."We could not sleep a wink," said Kajal Aunty."I could not sleep at all," said Big Bird."What can I do if my friends snore?" wailed Beena. What would you do, dear reader? "Hmmm. Haa. Uh-hmmm," said the village head. People should climb this tree to bring down the fruits. People should sit and talk to each other under this tree. People should play under this tree after they have finished their work."But why?" asked Beena. Why do you think, dear reader? The Moon knew why.So she smiled. She smiled at the tree.She smiled at the village head. She smiled at the sleeping animals.Do you think the moon REALLY smiles, dear reader? Kuttu, the pup, wanted to help Beena."Beena is not happy. It seems we all snore very loudly. The villagers are angry with her. Can you help in any way?" he asked Jenna, the bee."Why do sounds make people unhappy? The sound of my buzzing makes my friends sleep well!" Kuttu spoke to Beena. Beena walked up to Big Bird and siad, "Big bird, may I ask our friend Jenna to sing a lullaby for you?""Grrrr!" growled Big Bird, still in a very bad mood.Are you ever in a bad mood, dear reader? Kuttu went to Madam Ola next. "Why do people get angry when they cannot sleep well? You look so nice and happy even though you have not slept all night," said Kuttu."Hmmm. That is because I am up on this tree. I fly. I hunt. I work. I stretch.And when I catch a rat, I'm happy and content." The Moon's smile became wide...a bit more...more...wider! And her eyes grew....Dear reader, what happens to your eyes when you smile wider and wider and wider?And can you smile when you snore? Or snore when you smile? Beena and Kuttu met under the tree. Why did the village head want people to come to the tree?Because, because, because.......do you know why, gentle reader?Beena's friends came to the tree, one by one. Soon, they were laughing and dancing under the tree. Beena looked at them and......aha! She knew the WHY! When people work with each other, they smile a lot. When they play with each other, they smile a lot. And then, when they sleep, they sleep happily and really do not mind if any one snores. Sometimes they smile in their sleep. And snore in their sleep too.The pig can go hoinkkkkkhoinkkkk with a smile. The mice can go Keeeekkk eekkkk.And you can go...zzzzzzzzzzzzzz. zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz.Goodnight, dear reader... goodnight...goodnight....nighttt.

Once upon a time, there lived a sister and a brother called Amit and Radha. Amit one day asked his mother 'mom, can I go to a picnic toa swimming pool with my football myself?' His mother told, 'I can't send you. It's very far away and dangerous.' Amit said, 'no mom. I know a swimming pool near by. I will take my swimming suit, football and even Radha. I can't do anything if she does not come.' His mother said, 'ok. but be careful and how will you go?''By my bicycle' shouted Amit as he went to call Radha. Radha was painting a picture. Amit asked 'Radha are you coming with me to the swimming pool?' Radha said, 'but you don't know swimming.' Amit said, "I will swim in the baby pool.' Radha said, "I have done swimming a hundred times. I will not come.' Amit asked her so much, but she refused. So he went all by himself. when he reached the swimming pool, he did not know where to park the bycycle. he parked in a place he did not know. He came inside, changed his dress, kept his football, in a place and jumped inside the babypool and played for sometime there and then came out. He changed his dress and was playing with his football. Suddenly his football fell into the deep pool. It was so deep that he could not go there. He asked someones phone and made a call to hishis mother. Radha picked the phone and said 'hello who is this?' Amit said, 'Radha I am Amit. My football fell into the water. As you know underwater swimming, please come and help me. Radha said, 'sure.' and told her mother about this and went to the swimming pool with her bicycle and swimming dress. Amit was waiting for Radha and when she came, he said sadly, 'my football is already drowned.' Radha said, 'It's ok.' She wore her swimming dress and jumped into the water. After a minute, she came out with his football. She gave it to Amit and changed her dress and came to Amit underwater swimming and stay in the water for an hour.' He whispherd, 'Then you will be dead' Radha laughed. Then they both laughed and went home on their bicycles happily.

Rehan and his father sat watching the sea. They had come for a holiday in Srilanka, a place full of beaches. They were looking forward to swimming in the sea, playing in the sand, boating, whale -watching..... But his mother's plan was the best. She suddenly asked Rehan to get ready to go snorkeling with her. This was the first time they were going to dive into the sea. Both of them were excited. Underwater is amazing! Though it was a little difficult to get used to breathing, Rehan soon learnt the trick. He floated, swam and then dived in. He felt good. Ooooooh! It was fascinating to see all kinds of colourful fishes swimming in all directions! There were rocks, corals, flowers, plants,.... all surrounded by the blue sea. The plants were swaying gently as though they were talking. Rehan and his mother went deeper in. They could touch the rocks and the corals underneath. It looked as though they were breathing. A large fish with fins looking like spikes went past them. Another one seemed to have a mustache. Then there were the very tiny ones too! Rehan slowly floated away from his mother. He reached a huge cluster of rocks looking like a hill. There was a huge fish swallowing a couple of smaller ones! The fish almost looked like a snake. Rehan looked for his mother and showed her that. Rehan wanted to tell his mother not to leave him. He was a bit scared now. He decided to follow his mother closely. Another big fish seemed to come towards them. Rehan could also see a large red one behind it, above the rocks. It was all so colourful! Then he saw a turtle nibbling something. Or, was it breathing? Or talking? Rehan wanted to touch it. He swam towards it wondering what would happen if he touched the turtle. Just as he was going towards the turtle, a huge black fish crossed his path. It had its mouth wide open. Rehan thought it was coming to bite him and quickly swam away. Rehan was pulled by his mother and both of them swam back to the surface. It was a wonderful experience! "Does the sea have all the creatures that the land has?" Rehan wondered as he got back to his boat. On the boat , sitting next to his father, Rehan kept thinking about the creatures under the sea. And, his head was full of questions.

"Sheela, Sheela!", shouted Ramu. Muttering and grumbling, Sheela woke due to her brother, Ramu's shouts." Am I the only one you find to wake up in the house?", questioned Sheela." I don't want to wake you up but I want to show you something splendid. The streets are filled with people and flowers. Tall and short, fat and thin, beautiful and ugly, literate and illiterate, kind and unkind, good and bad. Every kind of person is there.", said Ramu Sheela sat up, concentrating on Ramu's words. The next moment she rushed to the window. Sheela thought, Why are the streets colourful, Why is everyone outside, Why, why, why? She took the calendar and saw the date, Oh! The answer to all her "Why's", is that today is Holi! Ramu and Sheela stared at one another blankly. Suddenly Ramu broke the silence, "Sheela lets go to Shyamlal Uncle's sweet shop to buy sweets for the Holi celebrations. Off they went at the speed of lightning to uncle's sweet shop." Uncle, Uncle, 5 dozen of motichoor laddoos for the Holi celebrations. Amma(mother) will pay as soon as the celebrations are over.", requested Sheela. Ramu grabbed the sweets and they both rushed to the river bank where the celebrations were happening. Ram, Lakshmi, Shriya and Rita were already there, waiting for Ramu and Sheela. First Ramu offered them sweets and then they started to play pichkaris, water guns, water balloons and of course colours. While playing Sheela thought," Amma does not come out to play because she is scared of water. Only if she knew how fun it is! It is a bit hard to persuade Amma but I know that it is entirely possible." With this thought in her head, she made her way through the crowd to fetch Amma but what a sight! Amma was coming towards the river with a sack full of pichkaris. Sheela ran and hugged Amma," Finally you have come out to play. It is really fun." Grabbing Amma's hand, Sheela rushed to the Holi site. Amma and Sheela splashed each other. Amma didn't mind being splashed in fact she found it fun. Ramu also was very shocked to see Amma. Daddy used to like Holi from before so even he was enjoying a lot. Sheela and Ramu loved when Amma would smile and this was was one chance when they could see her smile. Once the Holi celebrations were over, Ramu and Sheela brought along their friends. Everyone was doing something or the other. Amma had gone to uncle's sweet shop to pay him. Everyone was sad that Holi was over but Daddy doesn't want everyone to be sad so he said, "Holi will come again next year!" But I always say that 365 DAYS IS A VERY LONG TIME TO WAIT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Once upon a time there used to be a dragon named Pitu. He used to sunbath and enjoy himself swimming in fresh, cold waters. He didn't move a muscle to help in the fields nor did he help at the bazaar. All he used to do was blow a puff of smoke when anyone asked for help. Pitu used to boss around and always used to find faults in everything. One day the great Hooghly Baba came to Dragondon city. The great Baba arrived with two followers of his. One by one dragons started to pour inside his cabin. There were many different dragons but all had the same complaint. All the Baba heard was Pitu, Pitu, Pitu! The Baba couldn't stand it any longer. He walked to the site where Pitu was relaxing. He chanted a few mantras and then Pitu reduced in size. He was as small as a rat. Now no one could notice him anymore and his voice was so low. Now no one could hear his bossy words. Pitu now a small rat decided to adventure in the city. The crowd towered over him. It seemed that he had lost his own life because he didn't have his powers but when he tried to puff out smoke, Oh yes! Smoke came out from his mouth. A smoke - puffing - out - mouse! Wow! Amazing! Splendid! Now lazy he was, thus he couldn't walk too far. He does not have any choice since he does not have wings. Pitu entered a hut through the window. Oh! Some cheese!Pitu quickly took baby steps and headed towards the cheese. Yum, Yum! Pitu thought that mouse life was much better than dragon life. After Pitu nibbled on the cheese he turned to step back but the house cat was already upon him. Pitu struggled and finally he was free but poor Pitu lost his tail. Pitu wandered the streets and found a nice, old grandma who was fond of rats. Pitu liked sleeping on granny's bed, licking the spoons, drinking from granny's cup, watching television with popcorn. Pitu really enjoyed his stay with granny. Grandma made sure that he was comfortable but also made him work so that he stays fit. Now Pitu is completely different. He now is hardworking. Not lazy. Very surprising! Pitu went back to Dragondon after staying at granny's house. Now he is always the first one on the fields and the bazaar is more lively since he has joined." Good job Pitu! May you live long" said the Baba. Pitu liked his mouse life but dragon life is much better!

Once upon a time there was a beautiful girl. Her name was Daisy. She was so beautiful, so beautiful, that gods, men and animals all loved her. But there was an ugly and wicked sea-beast Moron, who liked to get anything beautiful and precious and store it in his palace under the sea. One day when Daisy was playing on the sea shore with wet sand and sea-shells, Moron saw her. His eyes glittered and he came up on the sea-shore and touched Daisy softly with the tip of his tail. Daisy who was innocent and loving smiled at Moron and soon Moron trapped her into a conversation with his false sugared words. Daisy did not suspect any trick and was talking her heart out about her books, toys and flowers and birds that she loved. All the time Moron was smiling a toothy smile, and getting closer and closer to Daisy. Daisy did not like the salty sea-weedy smell coming from Moron's body. But before she could get up and run away Moron caught her and dragged her into the wide blue sea where no one could hear Daisy cry but only the fishes and porpoises who were busy playing and did not bother about what Moron was doing. Moron kept Daisy locked in a room in his palace. The room had only one window which opened out to the sea. Sunlight did not reach the room. Daisy cried and cried till one night the Moon heard her cry. He peeped through the window of the room in Moron's palace where Daisy was crying her heart out. The Moon took pity on her and changed her into a white sea-bird. Daisy flew out of the window and went and sat on a mast of a ship that was sailing on the sea. Moron never saw her again.

Summer Autumn Winter Spring

Zara sulked. It was a Sunday and all she wanted to do was stay home and watch videos. Her mom just wouldn't listen.“You can't watch videos all day. Go out and play” her mom yelled.“But it's boring outside and I have no one to play with” Zara whined.Her Mom took away her tab. Zara stomped out. She felt as lonely as a lonely little girl left in a huge jungle all by herself. It was just too hot outside and Zara sat on a bench drawing her knees close to her.“I hate my life, I hate going out, and mom never understands” her head pounded loud.Something blue moved close to her, she glanced up. A brilliant blue butterfly flew in gentle circles around her and landed so softly on her knee! Zara saw its tiny little head and the two antennae sticking out, and did she imagine or did it really smile at her?! The butterfly then flapped its wings and floated away. Zara's heart lurched up too, and soared high and wide with a whole kaleidoscope of pretty butterflies.Purples and blues,pinks and yellows ,wings flapping,rainbows dancing, Zara saw it all and let the colors paint her heart. Zara just had to share this joy with someone. She looked around; there was no one in sight. It was just her and Nitu Aunty's quirky little vegetable garden wilting under the sun. What would she do now, would she turn back to sulking?What do you think?Nitu came outside to water her plants and tada! Someone had already watered them! Who would that be? who would sneak up and water the thirsty little plants and leave without being seen?This made Nitu so glad she decided she had to surprise someone else. Ravi, the building's watchman was so relieved to have a tall glass of cold delicious lassi that someone left on his table. Now who would that be? A cold glass of lassi on a hot day!“Slurp slurp” he drank it all up, the delicious coolness easing his hard day and leaving a smile on his face for the rest of the day. On his way back home, Ravi bought a drum from the peddler. When the children living under the bridge saw someone had left a new drum for them they just couldn't believe their eyes! But they had to believe their ears when the drum beats filled the place with a spirited music.“Tampada tampada dampa dadata”went their hearts rising up in a beautiful music. Their little hearts grew so big with happiness that they wanted to share their music with someone else. Fatima got back from work and saw someone had taken all her pots and buckets, filled them with water from the common tap and put them back on her doorstep. Now who would that be?What a wonderful thing to do! Now she could rest for a while after all her day's work. Fatima felt so loved and slept with a song in her heart. Next day she took a bunch of marigolds from her garden and put them in a vase on the table in her workplace. Annie was so stressed with work all day. Her head ached and she felt tired. That's when the sight and smell of golden marigolds shining like little suns cheered her and filled her with sweet memories. She messaged her friend.Zeena, Remember how we used to go around the neighborhood plucking marigolds till our skirts couldn't hold them anymore? How are you? I miss you. Love, Annie. Zeena's face lit up with a huge smile when she got a message from her childhood friend. Oh how they had played together, laughing and singing all day!When Zeena got home she said "I worked all day, I need to play now.Zara darling, would you like to play with me at the park?”Zara jumped with joy! And at the park a yellow butterfly had just broken free of its cocoon ready to fly.Do you see the butterfly smile at you?

One day owl went out to search for food. She met Mr. Bat and asked him if he wanted to join her. Mr. Bat agreed. While they were searching baby bat also joined them. They couldn't find any food but they saw a plate full of food. All of them ate their fill and ran away. The food was of an woodcutter. He was angry when his food was not there. He could never find out who took it!

Shyamlal came home wearing headphones and smiling, while he was listening to the latest songs launched. His wife was ready with dinner and his kids were there eagerly waiting for bed time since Shyamlal would tell wonderful tales about the great Tenali Ram. Today there was a special dinner, Ma's (Mother) amazing Pongal, Sambar with Shyamlal's favouite vegetables, Steaming rice and delicious curd with pieces of pomegranate. Suddenly Shyamlal remembered that he had to pay the moneylender , Give the carpenter back his hammer, Buy a new measuring tape for the tailor and buy his wife some rose flowers for the garden! Shyamlal did not remind his wife about anything, he quietly just sat down and started to eat. After some time Shyamlal forgot about everything and calmed down. He was as cool as a cucumber after an hour. In the morning, First he went to the moneylender................... Next he went to the carpenter............... Then to the tailor............ Finally to the bazaar............ And then to Home, Home, Home!......... Shyamlal's work is done now at last he can rest. Poor Shyamlal! He had a load of work to do. Shyamlal is busy, to be specific, he is always too busy. Watch out Shyamlal or one day you will be in great trouble! Always remember to do your work in time or else you will suffer like Shyamlal Babu.

A small bulbuli bird once built its nest on a tree in the king's garden. One day it stole a gold coin from the king's counting house when the king was counting his money. The next morning it was chirping "I am as rich as the king!" The king sent his men to find out what was in bulbuli's nest. They found the coin and brought it to the king. Bulbuli was very angry. It was dancing and saying "The king is a beggar! He has stolen my money!" The king told his men to return the coin in the bulbuli's nest. When they did so bulbuli started shouting "The king is afraid of me. He has returned my money" Now the king was very very angry. He ordered his men to catch the naughty bird and bring it to him. When they brought the bird the king swallowed it with a glass of water. But the moment he opened his mouth wide to yawn the bird came out and flew away and whistled sitting on a tree. The king again sent his soldiers to catch the bird. When the bird was brought the king swallowed it for the second time but instructed his soldiers to be prepared with their swords. The moment the bird flew out of his mouth they should chop off its head with their sword. The soldiers were standing with their uplifted swords. The king yawned. Bulbuli came out. Slash camedown the sword. But instead of bulbuli's head they missed their aim and chopped off the king's nose! The bird was singing now "The king has lost his nose!Serves him right."

Anu likes many things about Daddy. She likes the bright paper lanterns he makes, the crisp onion pakodas he fries and the cute tortoise he makes out of paper. Besides, he climbs the stairs with a hop, and wrestles with Uncle for fun. When guests come over, he always makes them laugh.Anu likes all these things about Daddy.But do you know what Anu likes most of all? Daddy's moustache! Every morning as Daddy shaves, Anu sits by and watches him carefully.Daddy holds his tiny pair of scissors between his two fingers, and with a snip-snip-snip he trims his moustache. Anu says, “Now a little to the left...now a bit to the right...no no, Daddy! Don't make your moustache small! I won't talk to you if you do!” When Daddy comes out of the shower, Anu takes a little comb and brushes his moustache neatly.She then holds both ends between her fingertips and gives them a twirl!Then Daddy's moustache looks stiff and proud.“Done, Daddy! Now don't you mess it up, okay?” she says sternly. Anu always thinks, if Daddy wears a smart tunic and a turban and rides a tall horse, with a sword across his belt, how grand he'll look!Just like a soldier wearing glasses! Actually, Anu likes anyone with a moustache. Like the dad of her friend Tuti, whose real name is Smruti. He has such a fat moustache! He must need a big fat comb to brush it.Tuti's dad plays very good tennis. But really, he should be a wrestler.If he wears a pleated turban and carries a giant club on his shoulder, he'll look just great! Sahil's dad has a pencil-thin moustache. Anu wonders how he manages to trim it so fine.If he wears a tall black hat, a long black overcoat and dark glasses, he'll look just like the detective on TV, who catches all the thieves! But Grandpa who lives next door has the best moustache of all! It looks as if a big white cloud has come down from the sky to live under his nose! His mouth is hidden behind the cloud.Anu is anxious about Grandpa... how can he eat with that cloud in the way? Anu wonders why a moustache doesn't grow under her nose.Every morning she wets her soap, makes a lot of lather and gives herself many different kinds of moustaches.“My moustache is the best,” she says. “It's pure white, and so soft! Isn't it nice?” she asks, happily.

Here is a tree.The tree is on the ground.And green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree. The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil.And green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree. The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil. Soil covers the roots.And green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree.The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil.Soil covers the roots.The trunk stands above.And green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree.The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil.Soil covers the roots.The trunk stands above.And branches spread from the trunk.And green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree.The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil.Soil covers the roots.The trunk stands above.Branches spread from the trunk,and leaves sprout from the branches,and green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree.The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil.Soil covers the roots.The trunk stands above.Branches spread from the trunk.Leaves sprout from the branches.And flowers bloom by the leaves,and green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree.The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil.Soil covers the roots.The trunk stands above.Branches spread from the trunk.Leaves sprout from the branches.Flowers bloom by the leaves.And fruits grow from flowers,and green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Here is a tree.The tree is on the ground.Its roots are in the soil.Soil covers the roots.The trunk stands above.Branches spread from the trunk.Leaves sprout from the branches.Flowers bloom by the leaves.Fruits grow from flowers.And inside the fruit is a seed.And green grass grows all around.And green grass grows all around. Soon...A tiny little plant will come from the seed. One day it will be a tree.And green grass will grow all around.And green grass will grow all around.

Igaba lakhe lalilifutshane ngokwenene. Umnyango wakhe wawusezantsi ngokwenene. Ibhedi yakhe yayimfutshane ngokwenene. Ibhayisekile yakhe yayimfutshane ngokwenene. Lendoda yayinde ngokwenene! Yenza intonga yegaba ende kakhulu. Yenza imigubasi emide kakhulu. Yenza ibhedi ende kakhulu. Yathenga ibhayisekile ephakame kakhulu. Yahlala esitulweni esiphakame kakhulu. Yatya ngefolokhwe ende kakhulu. Yayishiya indlu yayo yayohlala kwihlathi elikhulu. Yaphila iminyaka emininzi.

Nazi izilwanyanazasekhaya. Inkomo iyakhala ithi,"Mhu-u-u. Mhu-u-u."Inkomo ifuna amanzi. Ibhokhwe iyakhala ithi,"Mhe-e-e-eh. Mhe-e-eeh."Ibhokhwe ifuna amanzi. Ihashe liyakhala lithi,"Yi-hi-hi-hi. Yi-hi-hi-hi."Ihashe lifuna amanzi. Ihagu iyakhala ithi,"Hho-hho-hho-i-i-i-i."Ihagu ifuna amanzi. Isikhukukazi siyakhalasithi, "ke-ke-ke-keeee,ke-ke."Isikhukukazi sifunaamanzi. Inja iyakhonkotha ithi,"Hawu-hawu-hawu."Inja ifuna amanzi. Umlimi uphendula uthi,"Shhh! Nanga amanzi!"

Rhoqo xa ndigqiba kuhlamba kwibhafu eshushu, shushu.Umzimba wam uphola ube myoli myoli myoli.Ingaba ngubani owenza oko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Ubisi kwikomityi yam – luyatshisa, tshisa tshisa.Kodwa msinyanye luyaphola ndiluginye.Ingaba ngubani owenza oko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Ikhethini iyaphaphatheka efestileniIndiphulule izidlele.Ingaba ngubani owenza oko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Nako kubaneka, kude phaya.Amafu amnyama ayabaleka ayasondela.Ingaba ngubani owenza oko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Imithi iyahexa, amagqabi ayaphaphatheka.Iintyatyambo ziyawa.Ingaba ngubani owenza konke oko?NguVayu, umoya! Kude nekhaya siyadlalaKodwa, ndiyaliva ivumba leelekese zikamama.Ingaba ngubani owenza oko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Nantso iglasi yokusela efestileni. Yawa emhlabeni yaqhekeka.Enkosi bawo, bendingeko apho. Ngubani owenze loo ntlondi?Nakanjani!Nakanjani! Kukhala umlozi. Uloliwe uyangena.Andimboni, kodwa ndiyakuva ukundila kwakhe.Ingaba ngubani owenza oko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Akabonakali. Akavakali.Uwenza wonke umsebenzi.Akaphosi neliswi. Ingaba ngubani? Nakanjani!Ngumoya!

Namhlanye andiyi esikolweni. Yiholideyi! Namhlanje andizubukela umabona-kude/ iTV. Akukho mbane! Ndiza kwenza ntoni? Namhlanje ndiza kumamela kumzimba wam! Okokuqala, Ndiza kuthi cwaka. Cwaka kakhulu.Ukuze ndibe nokumamela kumzimba wam. Ewe, ngoku Ndiyawuva umphefumlo wam.Ngaphakathi...  ngaphandle ...Ngaphakathi...   ngaphandle ... Kwaye ndingawenza umphefumlo wam ungxole kakhulwana...Ssssssssssssss!Ngokuthe cwaka  Mmmmmm. Kwaye ngoku ndiyayivavs intliziyo yam, ibetha!Doodom,  doodoom,  dooodooom. Ndingayenza intliziyo yam ihambe ngokukhawuleza okanye ngokungxolayo?Ewe, ngokuxhumela phezulu naphantsi ngamaxesha amashumi amabini. Ngoku, bona intliziyo yam ibetha ngokukhawuleza.Doodom,  doodoom,  dooodooom! Kwaye ukuba ndibeka iminwe yam esihlahleni sam,ngoko ke ndingakwazi ukuva iPulse yam! Kwaye ndiyaziva ndihlekaleni samHaha  haha  haaah  haaa! Kwaye ndililaBoohoooohooo! Kwaye ndihlekaQhwa  Qhwaba  Qhwa  Qhwaba ! Ndingasiva isisu sam sixuxuzelaGuddu   guddu  guddu... kwaye sisithindityse'  ndityse'. Kwaye impumlo yam iyaliva ivumba leejalebisi zigcadeka ekhitshini/egumbini lokuphekela likamama. Kuluyolo ukuphulaphula umzimba wam.kwaye ngoku ndifuna ukuva imihlathi yam ihlafuna. Kwaye nesisu sam sigquma ziijalebisi ezimnandi nezishushu zikamama!

Ndiyacula. Uyabulisa. Ndibetha izandla. Uyazolula. Uyakhwaza. Ndiyaphendula. Umamele. Wenza ntoni?

Iphi ikati yam? Ingaba iphantsikwebhedi? Ingaba iphezukwekhabhathi? Ingaba ingaphayakwesofa? Ingaba isecalenikomgqomo? Ingaba iphakathikwengobosi? Ingaba iphaya phandle? Nantsi ndiyifumene!

Kumahlathi ashinyeneyo akude kwakuhlala uJoja ingwenya.Le ngwenya yayisoloko ilila ezo nyembezi zininzizeengwenya okanye ijoje isezela umoya. Umama kaJojawayedinwa kukulila nokujoja kwalengwenya. Wayedlangokuyingxolisa athi: “Khawuyeke le nto yokusoloko ulilaujoja usezela, ziphathe njengezinye iingwenya. Hambauyokuzingela ukutya.” Kodwa uJoja wayesuka asitshoisikhalo zithi waxa iinyembezi xa ecinga ngokuba kufunekaatye ezinye izilwanyana. Kwakuye kunyanzeleke ukubaumama notata kaJoja basoloko bempha ukutya yonkeimihla.  Ujoja wayengakuthandi kwaphela ukuba yingwe. “Ndimbikakhulu,” wayecinga kuthi kusenjalo zithi waxa iinyembezi.Wayengafuni nokuphila njengezinye iingwenya. Umhlobowakhe omkhulu yayinguNogolide iNogolide owayemhleembala ubugolide butyheli. UNogolide lo wayefunaukubamkhulu kwaye omelele. Ngoko ke uNogolidewayesoloko efinga uphiko lwakhe elwenza inqindi athi:“Lumka! Ndiyakukubetha emlonyeni.” Esi sibini sasihlekisangenene. UJoja wayekuthanda nokuqubha lo gamauNogolide ethe ngcu apha entloko kuye. Ezinye iingwenyazazibahleka zibagezele. Yayingamkhathazi nakancinaneuJoja loo nto. Waqhubekeka esezela umoya engumhlobokaNogolide.  Ngenye imvakwemini ilanga lalitshisa kakhulu. UNogolidewahlala wathi ngcu apha ecaleni kwendlebe kaJojawamsebezela wathi: “Ndibona amadododa amabiniaphethe imipu esiza kweli cala. Afuna ukubulala iingwenyakuba afuna ukuthatha izikhumba zazo.”“Ingaba la madoda awanazo ezawo izikhumba?” wabuzauJoja emangalisiwe.“Andazi Joja,” waphendula watsho uNogolide. “Ncedauxelele nezinye iingwenya ukuze nizimele.”“Kodwa nawe mhlobo wam Nogolide angakudubula lamadoda.” Yho! Ndingayintoni ngaphandle kwakho mhlobowam?” walila uNgwenya sele enesingqala esikhulu. “Abantu bayawabamba amabhabhathane ngeminathabawabethelele ebhodini, oko ndakuxelelwa ngumakaziwam owayengumakhulu,” watsho uNogolide wabe seleebhabha esimka.  Ezinye iingwenya zeva uJoja ekhala ekhwaza, “Amadodaayeza azakusibulala. Zimelani…Khawulezani… Zimelani.”Kuqala iingwenya azizange zimkholelwe uJoja, kodwa zevaizingqi zamadoda.Iingwenya zangena nzulu emlanjeni zashiya iziqobo zemithiebolileyo idada phesu kwamanzi. Amadoda adubula ezoziqobo zemithi kuba zazijongeka zifana neengwenya xauzibonela kude. Emva koko la madoda awazange aphindeazibone iingwenya. Abona sele kubhabha amakhulungamakhulu amabhabhathane ebhabha ebusweninasezinweleni zawo.  Anikina iintloko ezama ukususa loomabhabhathane esithi: “Akukho zingwenyaapha, masize neminatha ukuze sibambe lamabhabhathane.” Atsho ehamba la madoda.Zadibana zonke iingwenya zabulela zathi:“Enkosi, Nogolide.”“Enkosi mabhabhathane.” Ngemini elandelayo uJoja wabona amadodaaphethe iminatha. Wakhumbulaawayekuxelelwe nguNogolide ngeminatha.“Nogolide, iminatha! Khawuleza uze apha!Amadona aneminatha ayeza.”Zonke iingwenya zaya elunxwemeni lomlambo.Amabhabhathane athi ngcu emiqolweninakwiintloko zeengwenya. Ezinye iingwenya zarhangqela amadoda ngokuye esondela.Ingwenya zavesa loo mazinyo azo abukhali anemihlathiemide. UJoja wayephambili kuzo zonke iingwenya evezaamazinyo wakhe ejiwuza nomsila wakhe. Loo madodaooyika azibeleka iinyawo zawo ukubaleka ephuma kwelohlathi.Ezinye iingwenya zazinebhongo nguJoja kuba waziphathanjengengwenya yokwenene. Ngoku uJoja nayewayenebhongo ngokuba yingwenya.  Wonke amabhabhathane abhabha bhezu kweengwenyaeqhwaba amaphiko awo.“Enkosi Joja,“Enkosi zingwenya.”“Kulungile,” watsho uJoja eneentloni.“Kakade abahlobo bayancedana,kwaye bayakhathalelana.”

Umoya uyabhudla.Umoya ubhudla ikhaya lethu. Umoya unamandla.Ukrazula ikayiti yam isesandleni sam. Ndileqa ikayiti yam.Umoya undivuthelela kude nekayiti yam. Umoya uba sisitshingitshane.Isitshingitshane siyinyusela phezulu kakhulu ikayiti yam. Isitshingitshane siyandigubungela.Andiboni nto, andikwazi kubamba nto. Ingaba iphi ikayiti yam ngoku?Mhlawumbi ibambeke emthini. Mhlawumbi ikayiti yam isabhabha esibhakabhakeni. Ngelingeni umoya uyaphela.Mna ndisajikeleza. Xa ndiyeka ukujikeleza ndiyabheka-bheka.Ingaba uye phi umoya? Andiyiboni naphi na ikayiti yam.Andisawuva umoya. Mhlawumbi ndizakuyifumana ngomso ikayiti yam.Ngoku kufuneka ndiye ekhaya phambi kokuba umoya ubhudle kwakhona. Umoya uyavunguza.Uvunguza udlula ekhaya. Umoya unamandla.Uphephula ikhayithi esandleni sami. Ngiyalijaha ikhayithi lami.Umoya ungiphephulela kude nekhayithi lami. Umoya uphenduka isivunguvungu.Sithatha ikhayithi lami kudekude phezulu. Isivunguvungu siyangigwinya!Angisaboni lutho. Angithinti lutho. Liphi ikhayithi lami manje?Mhlawumbe ligaxele esihlahleni. Mhlawumbe ikhayithi lami lisandiza phezulu esibhakabhakeni. Umoya ugcina wehlile.Ngisaphenduphenduka. Lapho ngiyeka ukuphenduphenduka ngiqalaza yonke indawo.Ushonephi umoya? Angilibonindawo ikhayithi lami.Umoya angisawuzwa nhlobo. Mhlawumbe ngizolithola kusasa ikhayithi lami.Manje, kufanele ngiye ekhaya, ngaphambi kokuba umoya uqale futhi ukuvunguza.

Kwakukho ihlathi elimnyama.Yayilihlathi elikhulu elimnyama.Kwakukho imithi emininzi nendlela emxinwa.Izilwanyana ezininzi neentaka zazihlala apha.Ngenye imin, zonke izilwanyana zadibana.“Uvile?”wabuza uTota, isikhwenene. “Ewe” watsho uHirni, ixhama.“Intoni?” wabuza uDarpok, umvundla. “Sinesikolo ehlathini,”Waphendula uZhoola, inkawu.UMota, indlovu yamangaliseka, “Hmph?”uLamboo, indlulamthi yathi, “Oo kulungile!”uDheema, inkumba yatswina, “Khawuleza, masihambe. UTota, isikhwenene sabhabha phambili.UZhoola, inkawu yatsiba emthini ukuya komnye umthi.UPoorakha, irhamba larhubuluza ngokukhawuleza.“Apha!” wakhwaza uTota. “Ungafunda?”“Igqwethekile, ndiyacinga,” watsho uZhoola ejinga esebeni UPoorakha waqgibezela, “Si-i-i-i-i.Akukho mntu unokufunda.”Kwakamsinya, bonke abanye abahlobo baqhagamshelane nabo.ULamboo wajonga ngapha komthi.“Akukho mntu apha,” watsho.UZhoola waphinda, “Akukho mntu apha.”UTota wacebisa,”Jonga ngocoselelo!” UPilloo, ibhere elincinane wapapasha, “Ndifumene igumbi!”“Ndifumene ujingi,” wachaza uDheema."Zintoni ezi ziqobo?”UDarpok wafuna ukwazi.“Yintoni le?” Yayingumbuzo kaZhoola.UPoorakha wacacisa, “Ndiyakholwa ukuba yipensile le.”UMota noLamboo bafumana igumbi lokufundela.Babiza abanye, “Jonga, yintoni le!” Wonke ubani weza nobhaka.Baqalisa ukukhwaza, “ Titshala! Titshala!Uphi utitshala wethu??”Akwabikho waziyo.Baza beva umgqumo.Beva umgqumo omkhulu. Beva umgqumokazi. UPoorakha wakhathazeka. UDeema woyika.UTota wazimela emva kwebhodi.ULamboo noZhoola babedidekile.Ngubani lo?“Hupu!" Watsho uZhoola inkawu.Akwatheha nomnye.Bonke bajonga kutitshala.Phezulu naphantsi ngocoselelo.Baza bajongana omnye nomnye. Utitshala wajika ukuba abhale ebhodini.“Xhuma,” watsho uZhoola.“Bhabha!” watsho uTota.Ngqe-e, ngqe-e, ngqe-e, wabaleka uMota.“Baleka, baleka, baleka, ngokukhawuleza,” wakhwaza uDheema.“Bhagoooo,” bakhwaza bonke ngexesha elinye.Wathi akujika utitshala…Kwakungekho nomnye eklasini.

Kumyezo othile kwidolophukazienkulu kwakukho umthiomkhulu. Izilwanyana ezininzizazihlala kunye kulomthimkhulu. Kwakuhlala nosapholwamagala kulo mthi.UViki wayelelinye lamagalaawayethanda ukuthethakakhulu.Umzala wakhe uKato wayesukakwihlathi elikudeezekumndwendwela. Ngobunye ubusuku izilwanyanaezazihlala kulomyezozazilungiselela ukuya kulala.Zeva ingxolo enkulu isukakwipaki ekufutshane aphokulomyezo. UKato namanye amagalababona oomatshini abakhuluabamthubi. Kwakukhonamadoda anxibe iminqwaziemthubi eqinileyo. La madodaayekhomba kulomyezonakwizindlu ezazikwisitalatoesikufutshane apho emyezweni.Babezakudiliza zonke ezo zindlubaze bakhe ibala lokukisaiimoto. Abantu ababehlala aphokwakufuneka bayekuhlalakwezinye izindlu, kodwaakuzange kubekho namnyeowayecinga ngezilwanyana,iintaka unye nezinambuzaneezazihlala apho emyezweni. Ezi matshini zaqala zabonwalusapho lweentuku. Oyenawazibona kuqala yabangumnumzana uPopisiowayemdala waza waxelelaumnumzana uMopisi owathiyena waxelela umninawa wabouPopisi omncinane. Ngokuya babebancinibabebizwa Popi, Mopi kunyenoPipo. Umnumzana uPopisi waxelela amagala, amagala axelelaiintaka, iintothoviyane, amabhahathane, izigcwawuezincinane kunye nabo bonke ababehlala apho kulomyezo.Kwabakho ukuxhalaba okukhulu abanye bebaleka, abanyebebhabha abanye betsibatsiba kungekho nomnye owaziyoukuma makathini na okanye aye phi na.Iintothoviyane zathi: “Masikhangeleni amagqabi.”Amabhabhathane athi, “Thina sifuna iintyatyambo.”Iimpuku zafuna imingxunya. Iintuku zafuna ukuzigrumbelaeyazo imingxuma. Amagala, iintaka, izinambuzane zafunaimithi, amahlahla kunye nengca.Zonke izilwanyana zazifuna umhlaba othamileyozingayifuni isamente okanye ikokriti. “Sizakuyifumana phiyonke le nto?” zakhala zibuza. “Inene sizakufa,” zatshozilila iinyembezi ziphokoka.  Umalume noninakazi kaKato's babethule bethecwaka. Wonke amagala akhasela ngakoomamabawo.UKato wathinta umqala wathetha eneentloni,“Ndihlala kwihlathi elikude, mhlawumbi sonkesingaya khona?”Kwaba ngumndilili wemincili abanye bathi,“Njani?”UKato wakrwempa intloko ecinga nzulu,“Kulungile ke, amagala, amabhabhathane,izigcawu, iintothoviyane nazo zonkeizinambuzane zingakhwela kuloliwe wamagala.Iintaka zingabhabha okanye zikhwele kunyenathi. Iintuku, iimouku kunye neenyokazingakhwela kuloliwe ohamba phantsikomhlaba.”  Bonke bacinga ukuba licebo elihle eli.Umnumzana uPopisi wakhauleza wayakumnumzana uGolozayo owayengumqhubikaloliwe ohamba phantsi komhlaba. Wambuzaukuba angabathatha bonke ukubasa kwihlathielikude kusini na. Umnumzana uGolozayowampampatha, wafifithekisa wagusugushuzaphambi kokuba ambombozele, “Kulungile.”Hayi key aba lithuba likamnumzana uPopisiukuba abe nguchwephetsha. “Ningaxhalabizihlobo, umzukulwana katatomkhulu wam . . .ongumtshana wesithathu kusapholomtshanakazi wesibini unosapho lwakheoluhlala kweli hlathi likude.” Kwangentseni uloliwe wamagalskunye nololiwe weentukuohamba phantsi komhlabawawugcwele uthe ntlingabakhweli. Wahambauqhuqha ujongise kwelo hlathilikude uthwele nemithi,iintyatyambo, amachibi kunyenomhlaba othambileyo.

Kudaladala uDyakalashe wavulaelambe kakhulu. Waphakamawangena ehlathini ikhangelaindawo enokutya. Wadibana nesitiya nesitiyaseediliya. Ezi diliya zazintlezijinga zibonakala ukubazivuthiwe kwaye zivuzisaizinkcwe. Ingxaki yayikukubazazijinga phezulu kakhuluemthini. "Kwowu zikhangekazikhangeleka zimnandikanobom ke ezi diliya,” wacingawatsho umfo wakwaDyaki.Wahlehla umva elungiselelaukuthatha owona mtsi uphezuluukuze afikelele kwezo diliya. Nka phantsi! Kwavakalaisithonga sokubhulekakukaDyalakashe esiwangomqolo phantsi. Ezi diliyazaziphezulu kakhulu kunokubaebecinga. Waphakama umfo omkhuluezixelele ukuba akasozeatyhafe. Wahlehla umvangakumbi elungiselelaukuthatha isantya ukuzeatsibele phezulu kakhulu. Nkakwakhona! Wabethekangamandla kwesi sihlandlo. Wazama wazama uDyakalasheeqhutywa liphango kodwa nkqiwancama. Wayetsiba abethekephantsi wade wabuhlunguumqolo wakhe. Ekugqibeleni wancamawanikezela. Warhotyozaegoduka eqaqanjelwaesabanjwe linxele likakhetsekile Wayekhethazeke kakhuluuDyakalashe. Wema wajongangemva kwezi diliyaazincamayo. "Bezimuncukakade nezi diliya,” watshouDyaki. Wangena endleleniencamile elambe elufele.

Kwathi ngaminazana ithileuDyakalashe ekhangela ukutyawabona intakazana ibhabha isiyaemthini. Lentakazana yayiphetheigaqa elikhulu lesonka samamzingaloo mlonyana wayo utsolo. "Ndiyasifuna esasonka samanzi,"wacinga watsho udyakalashe.Sasibonakala simnandi kakhulu.Wayesele evuza izinkcwe umfoomkhulu. Wakhawuleza wosulaumlomo esenzela ukuba intakazanaingamboni ukuba uyarhala. Intakazana yayibhabhe imini yonke,koko yayidiniwe ifuna ukuphumla.Yathi ngcu kwisebe lomthi ithathaisiqabu. UDyakalashe wathivovololo phantsi kwaloo mthi kuhlelikuwo intakazana. UDyakalashe wabulisa intakazanaenoncumo olukhulu. "Molontakazana! Ubukeka umhle kakhulunamhlanje. Iintsiba zakhoziyakhazimla ubukeka usempilweni.Kuyabonakala ukuba ineneuzikhathalele.” Intakazana yaba negugu kakhulu xaisiva lamazi amnanadi kangaka.Kaloku iintakazana ziyakuthandaukunconywa. "Ndiva kusithiwa unelona lizwilimnandi kwaye ingoma yakhoimyoli kuzo zonke iingomazehlabathi,” waqhatha watshouDyakalashe. “Khawundiculeleingoma nje ibe nye.” Yho! Yavuthelana intakazanangamabhongo isiva ukunconywanguDyakalashe ingaqondi ukubaiyaqhathwa. Yavula amaphikoyatyhala isifuba isenzela ukubaliphume kakuhle ilizwi layo. Yatshongeyona ngoma yakhe yamnandi. Khilikiqi! Saphuncuka isonkasamanzi emlonyeni wentakazanasawa ezantsi kanye phambikoDyakalashe. Safika umfo omkhuluesililindile engafuni nokubasifunyanwe ngumhlaba. Wasicholawabaleka naso ehamba esitya. Yathiisothuka intakazana ifuna isonkasayo wabe uDyakalashe ejikelaigophe engena phakathikwamahlahla.

UMinti uyakuthanda ukudlala namabhabhathane… …kwakunye neentaka. Uyakuthanda kanti nokwenza amapomakazi ngesanti. Uyakuthanda kanti nokwenza amapomakazi ngesanti. Xa uMinti ebuyela ekhaya, umama wakhe umcelaukuba acoce ikhaya lakhe.Kodwa uyala. "Ndiyazicaphukela iisepha!” ukhwaza atsho. Kwathi ngabusuku buthile uMinti wafumana iphupha.Ipomakazi lakhe lesanti laligcwele iintsholongwane,ezinye zazimhlasela. Nanko uMinti eleqwa ziintsholongwane.Akazange abalekele obu bomi! Wakhala ekhwaza, “Nceda…Nceda!” Ngephanyazo, Kwavela uGwebu inkosi yeesepha.“Minti musa ukoyika,” watsho uGwebu.“Hlaselani ezi ntsholongwane!” watsho uGwebu inkosi yeesepha eyalela umkhosi wakhe wogwebu. Yeka oko umkhosi wogwebu ukuleqa ezo ntsholongwane! Nanamhla uMinti uyakuthanda ukusebenzisa isepha.Uyazihlamba azigutyule ukuze acoceke.

Sonke saya kwitheko lorhwebo eDasara. Utata wathengela uChintu iindondo ezinomtsalane.Umama wandithengela ikepusi eqaqambileyo ebomvu.Ubhabha wafumana iilekese. Endleleni egodukayo, umoya omkhulu weza.Wavuthuza, ikepusi yam yaphaphatheka. Ikepusi yam Yaxhaseka esebeni lomthi omdala wephayphali. Ndalika kakhulu.Kwaye andasitya isidlo sam sangokuhlwa. Emva kwexesha ngobo busuku, inyanga yavela.Yajonga ikepusi yam emthini omdala wePhayphali. Ndayilinganisa ikepusi yam.Inyanga yancuma ngolonwabo.Ndancuma nam ngokunjalo. Ukuphuma kwesikolo ngemini elandelayo, umama wam wandipha ikepusi ekhazimlayo, entsha, ebomvu."Inyanga iyithumele," watsho. Ngobo busuku,, sobabini inyanga namsathwala iikepusi zethu, sancuma.Sasonwabile. Ucinga ukuba ilanga lifuna umnqwazi? Qaqadisa yeyiphi ikepusi endiyithwalayo namhlanje?

Kudala-dala, kwakukho indoda eyayinesilonda esibi emlenzeni. Yayingakwazi ukuma nokuhamba. Le ndoda yayihlala elalini nenkosikazi yayo kunye nabantwana babo. Esi sibini sasinoonyana abathathu kunye nentombazana enye. Igama lentombazana yayinguNangila. Umsebenzi kaNangila yayikukunakekela uyise. Amakhwenkwe wona ayesebenza emasimini esolusa nemfuyo. UNangila wayeyintombazana entle. Bonke abantu belali babemthanda futhi bemhlonipha. Abazali bakhe bona babefunela intombi yabo isoka eliqotho. Benza iqhinga elinzima ukuze bafumane eyona ndoda emfaneleyo. Umntu owayefuna ukutshata noNangila kwakufanele ayokufuna iyeza elalifumaneka echibini elalikufutshane nelali leyo. Eli yeza lalizokupholisa isilonda sikatata kaNangila. Kodwa leli chibi laligcwele iziporho nezithunzela ezinobungozi. Amanye amadoda azama ukuya kukha eli yeza kodwa abuya elambatha. Amanye amadoda awazange abuye kwa ukubuya kwelo chibi. UNangila wakhathazeka. Nditsho nabantakwabo babengakwazi ukufika echibini. Ngoko wagqiba ekubeni ayokulikha ngokwakhe eli yeza. Umama wakhe wathi, "Mntwana wam, ucinga ukuba uza kuphumelela na, njengokuba namadoda anamandla ohlulekile?" Kodwa uNangila wayesele esithathile isigqibo, engasenakubuya ngamva. Endleleni eya echibini, uNangila wadibana nexhegwazana elalithwele inyanda yeenkuni. Walithwalela inyanda yalo ixhegwazana. Ixhegokazi labulela laze lathi kuNangila, "Ndiza kukuxelela indlela onokufikelela ngayo echibini leziporho nento ekufanele uyenze xa ufika khona." Wathi xa efikelela enyeleni yechibi, uNangila wabona usapho lweziporho lisela yaye lixhentsa. Walinda wabukela. Suke iziporho zabiwa bubuthongo ngasinye ngexesha. Kwathi xa sele zilele zonke, uNangila wantywilela echibini. Walifumana iyeza waze walifaka epokothweni yakhe. Uthe xa edada ebuyela enyeleni, suke amaza aba made ukumodlula. Iziporho zazisele zivukile ngelixa uNangila efika enyeleni yechibi. Wayesoyika kodwa wacula ingoma awayeyifundiswe lixhegwazana: Mna, ntombi kaWekesa, Ndiphuma echibini. Ndize apha ngoba amadoda ayoyika ukuza. Utata uyalidinga eli yeza ukunyanga isilonda sakhe. Yiyo le nto ndilapha nje, Endaweni apho abaninzi Boyikayo ukufikelela, Kuba nina niphethe. Ilizwi likaNangila lalimnandi kangangokuba iziporho zamcela ukuba aziculele aphindaphinde amatyeli amaninzi. Ukucula kwakhe kwenza ukuba iziporho ziphinde zibiwe bubuthongo. Wasuka apho wathi ngqe-e-e-e ukugoduka ephindela elalini yakhe. Bonke abantu babelindele ukubuya kukaNangila. Emva kokunyanga isilonda sakhe ngeyeza, uyise wakwazi ukuphakama kwakhona. Ilali yonke yalilizela incoma uNangila.

Kudala-dala, uSikhukukazi noKhozi babengabahlobo. Ngenye imini, uKhozi wafika uSikhukhukazi ephumle phantsi komthi neebhegi zakhe ezinegrosari. USikhukhukazi wayeme ngomlenze omnye. UKhozi wabuza kuSikhukukazi, "Uphi omnye umlenze wakho?" USikhukhukazi waphendula uKhozi wathi, "Unovenkile unqumle umlenze wam waze wandinika ezi bhegi endaweni yawo." UKhozi wabuza kuSikhukukazi ukuba angakwazi na naye ukwenza loo nto. Naye wayeyifuna ibhegi egcwele igrosari. USikhukukazi wavuma. UKhozi waya kunovenkile wamcela ukuba anqumle omnye umlenze wakhe aze amnike ibhegi enegrosari ngaphakathi. Unovenkile wavuma. UKhozi wangcileza ngomlenze omnye wade wayokufika ekhaya. Wayonwatyiswe kakhulu zizinto awayezinikwe ngunovenkile. Wathi akufika ekhaya uKhozi, wabona uSikhukukazi ehamba ngayo yomibini imilenze yakhe. Wabanomsindo uKhozi waze waleqa uSikhukukazi. Kodwa akazange amfumane. Yiyo loo nto, uKhozi esoloko ekhangela amantshontsho kaSikhukukazi. Xa ethe walibona intshontsho, uyalibamba alitye.

Kudala-dala, amantombazana amathathu ahamba aya kutheza iinkuni. Yayiyimini eshushu, ngoko ke baya ezantsi emlanjeni ukuya kuqubha. Enye yamantombaza, egama linguNozibele, yayine neklesi entle yeentsimbi emqaleni wayo. Wayeyenzelwe ngumakhulu wakhe. UNozibele wayikhulula ineklesi yakhe wayibeka ngononophelo elityeni phakathi kwenqgumba zeenkuni. Wabe sele etsibela emanzini naye. Balibala ngexesha. Ngephanyazo, baphawula ukuba kwakurhatyele. Bangxama ukubuyela elalini. Xa bekufutshane ekhaya, uNozibele wabeka isandla sakhe entanyeni. Wayelibele ineklesi yakhe! Wathi kubahlobo bakhe, "Ncedani niphindele eliweni nam. Ndilibele ineklesi yam." Kodwa abahlobo bakhe balandula besithi, "Asinakuhamba nawe. Kusebusuku kakhulu, oomama bethu baza kusohlwaya." UNozibele wacenga abahlobo bakhe ukuba bajike naye, kodwa bala. Ngoko ke, uNozibele waya yedwa emlanjeni. Wayifumana eliweni ineklesi yakhe. Wabeka iinkuni zakhe phantsi, wanxiba ineklesi yakhe, waza wachola iinkuni zakhe kwakhona. Ngoku kwakusele kumnyama. UNozibele wangxama ukuya elalini. Kodwa, walahleka ebumnyameni. Ekuqgibeleni, uNozibele wabona ukukhanya kude phaya. Wangxama ukuya ekukhanyeni. Wafumana indlu. Yayiyindlu encinane. UNozibele wankqonkqoza emnyango. Nkqo nkqo nkqo! Wothuka ukubona inja ivula ucango. "Ufuna ntoni?" yabuza inja. "Ndilahlekile, yaye ndidinga indawo yokulala," waphendula uNozibele. "Ngena," inja yatsho. "Andizange ndibe sendlwini yenja," waphendula uNozibele. "Ngena ngaphakathi, okanye ndiza kuluma!" yabhavuma inja. Ngoko ke, uNozibele wangena ngaphakathi. Yaza inja yathi, "Ndiphekele!" "Andizange ndaphekela izinja ukutya," watsho ngoloyiko uNozibele. "Pheka! Okanye, ndiza kuluma!" yamsongela inja. Ngoko ke, uNozibele wayiphekela inja. Yaza inja yathi, "Ndandlalele ibhedi!" UNozibele waphendula ngelizwi elingcangcazelayo luloyiko, "Andizange ndandlalela inja ibhedi." "Yandlala ibhedi, okanye ndiza kuluma!" Yavungama inja. Ngoko ke, uNozibele wayandlala ibhedi. Ngemini elandelayo, uNozibele wacinga ukuba angagoduka, kodwa inja yathi, "Yonke imihla, tshayela, upheke, kwaye undihlambele." Ngoko ke uNozibele wahlala. Ngenye imini inja yathi, "Nozibele, namhlanje kufuneka ndindwendwele abahlobo abathile. Tshayela indlu, upheke ukutya, uze uhlambe izinto zam phambi kokuba ndifike." Kwakamsinya yakumka inja, uNozibele waxhwitha entlokweni yakhe iinwele ezintanthu. Wabeka unwele lokuqala phantsi kwebhedi. Wabeka unwele lwesibini emva kocango. Waza wabeka unwele lwesithathu ebuhlanti. Akugqiba, wabaleka ngesikhulu isantya ukuya kowabo. Kungekudala, inja yafika endlwini yayo. Yakhangela uNozibele, kodwa ayamfumana. Yakhwaza, "Nozibele, uphi na?" "Ndilapha, phantsi kwebhedi," lwaphendula unwele lokuqala. Inja yakhangela phantsi kwebhedi, kodwa uNozibele wayengekho apho. Yakhwaza kwakhona, "Nozibele, uphi na?" Unwele lwesibini lwaphendula, "Ndilapha, emva kocango." Yaza ke inja yakhangela emva kocango. Kodwa uNozibele wayengekho nalapho. Inja yaba nomsindo. Yakhonkotha ngokukhwaza, "Nozibele, uphi na!" Unwele lwesithathu lwaphendula, "Ndilapha ebuhlanti!" "Yakhangela ebuhlanti inja. Kodwa do! UNozibele." Yaza ke inja yayazi ukuba uNozibele uyiqhathile. Yaba nomsindo kakhulu. Yabaleka, yabaleka, yabaleka yonke indlela eya elalini! Kodwa elalini, amadoda ayelinde neentonga zawo. Ithe inja yakuwabona amadoda, yajika yabaleka. Ayizange iphinde ibonwe ukususela ngaloo mini.

Kutheni na le nto isibhakabhaka siluhlaza? Asisoloko siluhlaza. Kunjalo? Kutheni amagqabi eluhlaza nje? Akasoloko eluhlaza.Kunjalo? Kutheni na le nto iibhanana zimthubi? libhanana ezivuthiweyo ziluhlaza.Iibhanana ezingavuthwana ziluhlaza. Kutheni na le nto izambrelizimnyama? Zonke izambreliAzimnyamanga. Kutheni na le nto igazi libomvu? Kukho i-ayon egazini.Loo nto ilenza libe bomvu. Kutheni na le nto ityuwa imhlophe?Andazi.

Wavuka uDyakalashe ngentsasaethile elambile. Amathumbu acheayegquma okwenkunziyengonyama kucaca ukubauphethwe mpela liphango.Waphakama wangena endleniekhangela ukutya. Wajukeleza ehlathini ekhangelaukutya ehamba esezela umoyaefuna ukuva ivumba lokutya. Ilangalalitshisa kakhulu. Kwakunzimanokubona kakuhle kuDyakalashengendlela awayelambe ngayo.Wayecinga ngephango kuphela. “Aaawwuuuu ...!” Watshongesikhalo esikhulu umfo omkhulu.Wawa kwisiziba esasiphambikwakhe. Wayelambe kakhuluesezela umoya intamo ithe qhiwuintloko ijonge phezulu ejoja ivumbalokutya. Akazange ajonge aphoahamba khona. “Owu Nkosi yam!” wacinga watsho.“Kufuneka ndiphume kwezi sizibaokanye ndakufela apha liphango.” Usimaqhinga onguDyakalashewakhala ekhwaza: “Ncedani!Ncedani.” UDonki wayesitya ingcakufutshane neso siziba. Wevaisikhalo sikaDyakalashe wabalekaesondela. “Yintoni ingxaki?” Wabuza uDonkiexhalabile.“Hayi wena mhlobo wamandikhaliswa yingxaki kokondinesithukuthezi. La manziamnandi kakhulu kwayeayawupholisa umzimba kweli langalitshisa kangaka. Ndifuna umhloboendinokuqubha naye andichithiseisithukuthezi. Ungangena uqubhekunye nam?” “Inene liyatshisa eli langa,” watshouDonki. Kodwa angekhe ndikwaziukuphuma xa ndingangena kwesisiziba.” Wayethandabuza uDonki.“Ngena mfondini! Ndizakuncedauphume xa udiniwe kukuqubha,”wathembisa uDyakalashe. Dyumpu! Watsiba wangenaesizibeni uDonki. Ayemnanadingenene la manzi. Wauva umzimbawakhe uphola kamnandi. WevangoDyakalashe etsibela emhlanakuye. Wayecinga ukubauDyakalashe uyadlala nje. NankouDyakalashe ephuma esizibeniebaleka ehleka. UDonki washekayedwa kweso soziba exakenenendlela yokuphuma. Waqalisanaye ukukhwaza: “Ncedani!Ncedani!”

Le yinkomo.Inkomo intle! Emini yinkomoeqhelekileyo, Ibhabhisa iKhayihi, Okanye ikhaba ibhola. Ebusuku inkomoebalaseleyo! Isindisa imiphefumlo, Kwaye ilwa ulwaphulomthetho. Kodwa, ukuba uvala amehlo akho ngokuqinileyo ngenene,kwaye wenze Umnqwno - Inkomo ingeza Kukubona nawe ngokunjala! Isiphetho.

Ilali iSinyaire ijikelezwe ziinduli neentaba. Kuhlala iinyoka ezininzi kwihlathi elikwezi ntaba. Eyona nyoka inkulu yayibizwa ngokuba yi-Unyalego ngabantu belali. Le nyoka yayisoyikisa abantu abaninzi kuba yayiginya ibimbilize iibhokhwe kunye neegusha ezipheleleyo. Ngenye imini u-Apiyo, u-Ajoh kunye no Atieno babesiya ehlathini beyokutheza. Umakhulu wala mantombazana wayewalumkisile wathi, "Nilumkele u-Unyalego inyoka enkulu. Ningathathi nenye into ehlathini ngaphandle kweenkuni." U-Ajoh akazange ayihoye nokuyihoya into awayeyixelelwa ngumakhulu wakhe. Amantombazana apakisha umphako wobisi, iibhanana, ibhatata kunye namanzi. Athatha neentambo zokubopha inyanda kunye nezembe lokugawula iinkuni. Ahamba ke aphathelela ukuya ehlathini. Endleleni amantombazana ayehamba ezincokolela nje futhi ehleka, kumnandi. U-Apiyo owayemdala kubo bonke wavakala esithi, "Thulani. Sele sisondele apho kuhlala khona u-Unyalego." U-Atieno wathi, "Yehake, khanijonje nanga amazinyo ka-Unyalego abugolide, masiwathatheni." U-Apiyo wabakhumbuza, "Ningalibali imiyalelo kamakhulu. Akufanelanga ukuba sithathe nantoni na apha ehlathini ngaphandle kweenkuni." U-Ajoh wathi, "Andiyikholelwa mna into ethethwa ngumakhulu. Ndicinga ukuba ubesitsho nje kuba engafuni ukuba sizithathele izinto esizithandayo. Unomona umakhulu. Ndiza kuwathatha mna la mazinyo egolide." Oodadewabo bakhathazeka kakhulu ngale nto. "Ajoh, uze ungathi khange sikuxelele." U-Ajoh akazange abahoye. Kwathi kusenjalo kwathi gqi u-Unyalego ezokukhangela amazinyo akhe. Wacaphuka kakhulu akungawaboni. U-Unyalego weva amantombazana encokola futhi ehleka. Wazimela phantsi kwelitye elikhulu elalikufutshane nendlela amantombazana ayeza kudlula kuyo. Amantombazana ayethwele iinyanda entloko. Eva ngomsindo wenyoka efuthayo, "Fu-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u!" Oothuka azama ukuzimela. Nankuya u-Unyalego phambi kwabo evule umlomo wakhe elindele ukuluma. U-Unyalego wawabuza amantombazana wathi, "Ngubani othathe amazinyo am egolide?" Akuzange kubekho mntu uphendulayo. Inyoka yathi ndiza kumfumana umntu owabileyo. "Lo ongenatyala uza kucula kakuhle angayenzi impazamo kodwa lowo onetyala yena uza kuthi xa ecula kwenzeke impazamo. Uza kuba kukutya kwam kweentsuku ezintathu ezizayo!" U-Apiyo waqala wacula kakuhle akabinangxaki. Kwalandela u-Atieno, naye wacula kakuhle. Ekugqibeleni kwacula u-Ajoh. Wayenexhala kakhulu. Wathi xa eqala ukucula ilizwi latshothoza namazwi engoma akavakala kakuhle. Wakhwaza u-Unyalego wathi, "Awukwazi ukucula kakuhle njengabanye?" Inyoka yabona ukuba nguye kanye u-Ajoh owayethathe amazinyo egolide. Bimbilili! U-Unyalego wamginya u-Ajoh. Oodadewabo babaleka bagoduka bayokuxela esi senzo sibi kangaka esenzekileyo.

Ndiyathanda ukufunda. Ndingafundela bani? Umntwana ulele. Ndingafundela bani? Umama nomakhulu bayapheka. Ndingafundela bani? Utata notatomkhulu balungisa imoto. Ndingafundela bani? Ndizohlala phantsi ndizifundele mna.

Lo nguPalesa. Uneminyaka esixhenxe ubudala. Igama lakhe lithetha ukuthi 'intyatyambo' kulwimi lwakhe iSetswana. UPalesa uyavuka athethe nomthi weeorenji. "Nceda mthi weeorenji, khula ube mkhulu usinike amaorenji amaninzi avuthiweyo." UPalesa uhamba ngeenyawo ukuya esikolweni. Endleleni uthetha nengca. "Nceda ngca, yiba luhlaza kakhulu ungomi." UPalesa udlula kwiintyatyambo zasendle. "Ncedani zintyatyambo, qhamani ukuze ndihombise ngani iinwele zam." Esikolweni uPalesa uthetha nomthi osembindini wesakhiwo. "Nceda mthi, khupha amasebe amakhulu ukwenzela sifundele phantsi komthunzi." UPalesa uthetha nemithi yokubiyela ejikeleze isikolo sakhe. "Nceda ukhule womelele, unqande abantu abakhohlakeleyo bangangeni." Xa uPalesa ebuyela ekhaya esuka esikolweni, undwendwela umthi weeorenji. "Ingaba awakavuthwa amaorenji wakho?" uyabuza uPalesa. "Amaorenji aseluhlaza," wanesingqala uPalesa. "Ndiyakukubona ngomso mthi weeorenji," watsho uPalesa. "Mhlawumbi uyakube sele unalo iorenji elivuthiweyo lam."

Usalukhumbula ugqatso olukhulu olwaluphakathi koMvundla noFudo?Kwaba lixesha elide izilwanyana zingasathethi ngenye into ngaphandle kolo gqatso lukhulu lwaluphakathi kwaba babini. Sonke siyayazi ukuba uMvundla woyiswa kuba wayesonqena kwaye ezithembe kakhulu.Siyayazi futhi ukuba uFudo lwaphumelela kuba wayecotha kodwa ezimisele. Izilwanyana zehlathi ziyakwazi noko kodwa zaqhubekeka zizihlonipha ngokulinganayo zombini ezi zilwanyana. Zombini ezi zilwanyana zasiselugqatsweni zahlala zingabahlobo. UFudo aluzange luzibone lungcono kunoMvundla ngenxa yokuba luphumelele, kwaye noMvundla, esazi ngcono ukuba woyisiwe, akazange amzonde uFudo. Kwadlula iinyanga ezininzi. Inkosi yehlathi apho kwakuhlala khona uMvundla noFudo yabanezinto ezibalulekileyo ekwafuneka ukuba izixoxe nkosi yehlathi elimelene nelo labo.Kodwa le nkosi yooFudo noMvundla yayingakwazi ukulishiya ihlathi ngaloo mzuzu. Yagqiba kwelokuba ithumele uMvundla noFudo kuloo nkosi ingummelwane ukuba babe ngabathunywa bayo. Bathi bakusabela ubizo lwenkosi yabo uMvundla noFudo inkosi yabo yabayalela isithi: “Kuyakufuneka omnye wenu aye kulenkosi isebumelwaneni.”“Ndifuna niyokuxoxa izinto ezithile ezibalulekileyo nale nkosi ingummelwane wethu. Nize nibuye nindixelele ukuba ingaba icinga ntoni le nkosi ngezi zinto ndiniyayelela zona.” “Hambani ke ngoku!” yatsho inkosi yabe sele ibaxelela ukuba bachithakale. “Kwaye nize nikhumbule ukuba ndininika usuku lube lunye kuphela ukwenza lo msebenzi.” Indlela eya kubukumnkani basebumelwaneni yayingelula kwaphela.Yayigcwele amatye nameva.Kwakukho nemilambo emibini ekwakufuneka beyiwelile ukuya kufika ebumelwaneni. Emva kokucingisisa, uMvundla noFudo bayiqonda bobabini into ukuya abanakho ukuwenza lomsebenzi umntu eyedwa.Kwakunyanzelekile ukuba bahambe kunye. Icebo labo yayikukuba uMvundla abeleke uFudo kwiindawo ezinameva apha endleleni luze uFudo lubeleke uMvundla ukuwela le milambo mibini. Kusuku olulandelayo baqokelela imiyalezo kwinkosi yabo belungiselela ukungena endleleni.UMvundla wenza amatshe kwezo ndlela zinameva lwabe uFudo lutshele emqolo lusoyika nokuwa ngenxa yamendu woMvundla. Bathi xa befika emlanjeni batshintsha izikhundla uMvundla wabelekela emqolo kuFudo. UFudo lwaluqubha ngokukhawuleza emlanjeni.Ngokukhawuleza bayiwela yomibini le milambo. Akuzange kubathathe ixesha elide ukuya kufika kubukumnkani bobumelwane. Emva kokuba bexoxe nzulu nenkosi yasebumelwaneni ngemiyalezo ababeyithunyiwe, uMvundla noFudo babekulungele ukuphindela ngemva babuyele enkosini yabo. Uhambo olubuyayo lwaba lula kakhulu kunolo babeluthathe ukuya ebumelwaneni. Kaloku ngoku bobabini babekwazi ekufanele bakwenze.Babesebenzisana kakuhle kakhulu bade bafika enkosini yabo lingekapheli nexesha ababelisikelwe!

NguJaaka lo, umlobiwaseNeminya. Uloba kumlamboiNayile. Unesikhephe, umnathanegwegwe. Uvuka ekuseni rhoqoukuze abambe intlanziyaseNayile. Ngentsimbi yeshumi,uthengisa iintlanziemarikeni eJunja. Kwenzeke ntoni, Jakaa?Ibalekile intlanzi?Unxunguphele. "Izinto azihambikakuhle namhlanje.Umoya waseNayileawundivumeli ndilobe.Enye intlanzi imkenegwegwe lam." "Kodwa ndinethembalokuba kuzobangconongomso, ngobandithenge igwegweelitsha."

Kudala-dala, umvundlanenkawubabengabahlobo.Ngenye imini, ngexeshalendlala, umvundlawamema umhlobowakhe ukuba bazodlala. Umvundla wathi,"Masidlaleukuphekaphekana!"Inkawu yabuza,"Sizakuyenza njanilonto?" Ke ngoku umvundlawaphendula, "Kufunekasibase umlilo, sigcwalise imbisangamanzi, ke ngokusiyibeke emlilweni. Mna ndiyakungenakuqala. Xa ndibethaisiciko sembiza, uvule.Ngoku ndizokuphuma." Inkawu yavumaukuyenza lonto. Ngokoumvundla wangenakuqala embizeni,amanzi eqala ukubila. Umvundlawankqonkqoza, inkawuyasivula isiciko. Kodwa kuthe xa ilithubalenkawu, umvundlawathatha ilityekazielikhulu, walibekaphezu kwesicikosembiza esakugqibawahlala phezu kwaso. Kuthe xa amanzi eqalaukubila, inkawuyankqonkqoza, kodwaumvundla akakhangeasivule isiciko. Ngoku inkawu yafa, kengoku umvundla watyaumhlobo wakhe!

Ndililahlile iphini lam lokubetha ibhola, Kwaye andilifumani. Ndikhangele emva kocango.Belingekho phaya. Ndilikhangele ethaleni.Akhange ndilifumane phaya. Ndilikhangele phantsi kwebhedi.Alikho nalapha. Ndiphengulule phakathi etyesini/ebhokisini.Akukho nophawu lwalo. Ndiphengulule indawo ephantsi kophahla.Andikhange ndiyifumane naphi na. Ndikhangele apha, phaya, nakwindawo zonke,Andiyifumananga naphina.

UNamukuru nomntakwabo balungele ukuya esikolweni. UNamukuru uthwala umntakwabo kwibhayisekile yakhe. Abahlobo babo bayababulisa endleleni eya esikolweni. Ngeli lixa beseklasini, inkawu iyafika ngaphandle. Inkawu imka nebhayisekile kaNamukuru! Abantwana baleqa inkawu. Inkawu ishiya ibhayisekile phantsi komthi. Inkawu idadela kwisiqithi esiphakathi kwichibi. Ikhwela phezulu emthini. Inkawu iyabulisa iphephezelisa isandla! Abantwana nabo bayabulisa bephephezilisa izandla. UNamukuru uyifumene ibhayisekile yakhe kwakhona.

NguLekishon lo.ULekishon ubiza injayakhe. ULekishon nenja yakhebasa imfuyo edlelweni.Ilanga liyatshisa. ULekishon nenja yakhebanxaniwe kwayebalambile. Bayahamba bayokufunaamanzi. ULekishon ulahlekelwaziinkomo zakhe. ULekishon uqalisaukulila. Ugqiba ekubeni ayeekhaya nenja yakhe. Iinkomo ziyifumeneindlela egodukayo!ULekishon nenja yakhebavuya kakhulu.

Ngaminazana ithile, uMvundlana wawuzihambela ngasemlanjeni. UMvubu naye wayelapho, ezithele chu emane ukugramza ingca eluhlaza. UMvubu wayengaboni ukuba uMvundla ukhona nawo apha waze ngelishwa wathi gximfi enyathela unyawo loMvundla. Wasitsho isikhalo uMvundla ekwangxolisa uMvubu, “Hey wena Mvubu! Awuziboni ukuba uyandinyathela enyaweni?” Waxolisa uMvubu kuMvundla, “Ndiyaxolisa kakhulu, mhlobo wam. Andikubonanga. Yhini! Khawundixolele kaloku!” Kodwa uMvundla wayengafuni nokuva waqhubeka ungxolisa uMvubu, “Wenze ngabom nangoku! Ngenye imini, inene ndiza kukufumana, uzukhangele! Uzawuva shu nawe!” Wahamba emva koko uMvundla usiya kukhangela uMlilo, wafika wathi, “Hamba, uyotshisa uMvubu xa ephuma emanzini ezokutya ingca. Undinyathele! Waphendula uMlilo, “Ilula loo nto, Mvundla mhlobo wam. Ndiza kwenza njengokuba usitsho. Ethubeni uMvubu wabantu esazityela ingca kude le nomlambo suka kwevakala "uwushu!" UMlilo udubule waba ngamadangatye watsho ukubutshisa bonke uboya bukaMvubu. UMvubu wakhala ebaleka ukuya emanzini. Bonke uboya bakhe babutshe baphela emlilweni. Waqhubeka ekhala uMvubu, “Uboya bam butshe baphela tu emlilweni! Ubutshise bonke uboya bam! Uboya bam, uboya bam buphele bonke vuthu! Obuhle kangako bona uboya!” Yiyo loo nto iMvubu ingahambeli kude namanzi kuba yoyika ukuphinda itshiswe nguMlilo. Wavuya uMvundla xa ubona uMvubu esitshwa nguMlilo, ekhwaza esithi, “Heke, ndimfumene, ndimfume-e-ene!”

Ndingabaleka ngawo. Ndingaxhuma ngawo. Ndingadanisa ngawo. Ndingaqubha ngawo. Ndingatsiba ngawo. Ndingakhaba ngawo. Ndingasuka ndihambengawo. Kodwa andingekhendibhabhe ngawo.

UZama ulungiselela ukuya esikolweni. Utata upheka isidudu sesidlo sakusasa. "Umama wenza isidudu esiluncuthu!" utsho uZama. Isidudu sinika uZama amandla okuya esikolweni. Isidudu sivuthiwe. Utata ugalela ubisi, ngothando. "Tata, ndicinga ukuba esi sidudu sifuna ukongezwa iswekile," utsho uZama. "Isidudu sikamama simnandi kakhulu kunesidudu sikatata," uyacinga uZama. "Tata, ndingayongeza iswekile?" uyabuza uZama. Utata wongezela uZama iswekile. "Yhu! Tata! Ugalele ityuwa esidudwini sam!" "Tata, uzobuya nini umama?" uyabuza uZama.

Ndiyavuko ndibase umlilo. Ndibilisi amanzi. Ndikhethe inkuni zokubasa umlilo. Ndizamise imbiza. Ndishayele phantsi. Ndihlambe izitya. Kutheni mna ndisebenza nzima...... elo xesha yena umnakwethu uyadlala?

Kudala-dala, kukho iqelalezilwanyana ezineempondoelagqiba kwelokuba zibenomdliva wepati phezuluezintabeni. Zamema ezinyeizilwanyana ezineempondokuphela. Hayi ezinye. Yathi ihagu yakuva ngale pati,yacinga yacinga, "Heeeandinazimpondo kanene. Ndizakuthini bethu?" Ngengomso, yeza necebo. Izakuzenzela iimpondoizincamathisele ngamafuthaokuncamathisela! Lasebenza nyhani eli cebonehagu yazingomba isifubangokuhlakanipha xa ivunyelwaukuba ingene epatini. Ingxakiyayile yokuba ipati leyayikwindawo ekufuphinelanga. Yathi isakuyondelelana ipatikumnandi nyhani kujuxuzwa,suke aqalisa ukunyibilikaamafutha, yhoo! nazo iimpondonazo zisiwa.Zothuka ke ezinye izilwanyanaezineempondo. “Ngubani kengoku lo ungenampondo?Ungene njani apha?” zabuzana. Ikumkani yezilwanyanayangqokola isithi, “Nqakulaniloo hagu niyiphosele kude leemhlabeni.”Hayi ke zonke izilwanyana, zithezisakuva ilizwi elibekweyikumkani, zonda ngehagunjengoko ziyalelwe. Zayixhakamfula ihagu,zayiphosa kude le ezantsiemhlabeni.Owu usizana lwehagu! Layakuwa bhuu phantsi ngempumlo.Impumlo yaba sibaca torhopaca. Ungothuki ke xa ubona ihaguinempumlo ethe paca ukubasibaca oku, kuba ayizangeitshintshe kusukela mhla yawa.

UHamisi udinga iyunifomu entsha yesikolo. Utata wakhe umsa ezivenkileni. UHamisi ubona inkwenkwe enxibe ihempe entle. "Yaze yantle ke la hempe," wacinga njalo uHamisi. "Nam ndirhalela ukuba nehempe efana naleya yala nkwenkwe," watsho uHamisi. "Jonga, uthengisa ezi hempe zikhethekileyo," watsho uHamisi. "Tata, ndicela undithengele yona." "Hamisi, kufuneka ndikuthengele iyunifomu," watsho utata wakhe. "Andinayo imali eyanele yokuthenga loo hempe," watsho utata. Utata kaHamisi uhlawulela iyunifomu. Uyothuka xa ebona kubuya itshintshi. Kusele imali eyanele ukuba athenge nehempe! Le yimini kaHamisi yethamsanqa! Inokuba uza kukhetha eyiphi ihempe?

Ibhola. Ibhola yam. Ibhola yam ebomvu. Ibhola yam enkulu, ebomvu. Ndiyakhaba. Ndikhaba ibhola yam. Ndikhaba ibhola yam ebomvu. Ndiyikhaba kakhulu ibhola yam ebomvu! Phi? Iphi ibhola yam? Iphi ibhola yam ngoku? Iphi ibhola yam ebomvu ngoku? Iphezulu. Iphezulu kakhulu. Iphezulu kakhulu esibhakabhakeni. Iphezulu kakhulu esibhakabhakeni, ngaphaya kwenyanga. Imkile!

Sonke saya kwithekolorhwebo eDasara. Utata wathengelauChintu iindondoezinomtsalane.Umama wandithengelaikepusi eqaqambileyoebomvu.Ubhabha wafumanaiilekese. Endleleni egodukayo,umoya omkhulu weza.Wavuthuza, ikepusiyam yaphaphatheka. Ikepusi yam Yaxhasekaesebeni lomthi omdalawephayphali. Ndalika kakhulu.Kwaye andasitya isidlosam sangokuhlwa. Emva kwexesha ngobobusuku, inyanga yavela.Yajonga ikepusi yamemthini omdalawePhayphali. Ndayilinganisa ikepusiyam.Inyanga yancumangolonwabo.Ndancuma namngokunjalo. Ukuphuma kwesikolongemini elandelayo,umama wam wandiphaikepusi ekhazimlayo,entsha, ebomvu."Inyanga iyithumele,"watsho. Ngobo busuku,,sobabini inyanga namsathwala iikepusi zethu,sancuma.Sasonwabile. Ucinga ukuba ilangalifuna umnqwazi? Qaqadisa yeyiphiikepusi endiyithwalayonamhlanje?

Kwakukho ihlathi elimnyama. Yayilihlathi elikhulu elimnyama.Kwakukho imithi emininzinendlela emxinwa.Izilwanyana ezininzi neentakazazihlala apha. Ngenye imin, zonke izilwanyana zadibana.“Uvile?”wabuza uTota, isikhwenene.“Ewe” watsho uHirni, ixhama.“Intoni?” wabuza uDarpok, umvundla.“Sinesikolo ehlathini,”Waphendula uZhoola, inkawu.UMota, indlovu yamangaliseka, “Hmph?”uLamboo, indlulamthi yathi, “Oo kulungile!”uDheema, inkumba yatswina, “Khawuleza,masihambe. UTota, isikhwenene sabhabha phambili.UZhoola, inkawu yatsiba emthini ukuyakomnye umthi.UPoorakha, irhamba larhubuluzangokukhawuleza.“Apha!” wakhwaza uTota. “Ungafunda?”“Igqwethekile, ndiyacinga,” watsho uZhoolaejinga esebeni.UPoorakha waqgibezela, “Si-i-i-i-i.Akukho mntu unokufunda.” Kwakamsinya, bonke abanyeabahlobo baqhagamshelanenabo.ULamboo wajonga ngaphakomthi.“Akukho mntu apha,” watsho.UZhoola waphinda, “Akukhomntu apha.”UTota wacebisa,”Jongangocoselelo!”UPilloo, ibhere elincinanewapapasha, “Ndifumeneigumbi!” “Ndifumene ujingi,” wachazauDheema.Zintoni ezi ziqobo?”UDarpok wafuna ukwazi.“Yintoni le?”Yayingumbuzo kaZhoola.UPoorakha wacacisa,“Ndiyakholwa ukuba yipensilele.” UMota noLamboo bafumanaigumbi lokufundela.Babiza abanye, “Jonga, yintonile!”Wonke ubani weza nobhaka.Baqalisa ukukhwaza, “ Titshala!Titshala!Uphi utitshala wethu??”Akwabikho waziyo. Baza beva umgqumo.Beva umgqumo omkhulu.Beva umgqumokazi.UPoorakha wakhathazeka.UDeema woyika.UTota wazimela emvakwebhodi.ULamboo noZhoolababedidekile. Ngubani lo?“Hupu! Watsho uZhoola inkawu.Akwatheha nomnye.Bonke bajonga kutitshala.Phezulu naphantsi ngocoselelo.Baza bajongana omnyenomnye. Utitshala wajika ukuba abhaleebhodini.“Xhuma,” watsho uZhoola.“Bhabha!” watsho uTota.Ngqe-e, ngqe-e, ngqe-e,wabaleka uMota.“Baleka, baleka, baleka,ngokukhawuleza,” wakhwazauDheema.“Bhagoooo,” bakhwaza bonkengexesha elinye.Wathi akujika utitshala…Kwakungekho nomnye eklasini.

Lo nguMbali. Ngutishala wam. UMbali uhamba ngeentonga. Lo nguMxolisi. Ungoyena msasazi ndimthandayo kunabo bonke. UMxolisi unengxaki yamehlo. Lo ngu-Ayanda, ummelwane wam. U-Ayanda sisithulu. Uthetha ngezandla. Lo nguSizwe. Ungumdlali wesoka obalaseleyo esikolweni sam. USizwe akanazo izandla. Kodwa ukora amanqaku amaninzi kwiqela lethu!

Kwilizwe laseGabon, kwakukh' ilaliencinane eyayimi kwinyele lehlathi.Esizikithini seli hlathi, kwawonamasebe aphezulu omthi omkhulukunene, kwakuhlala eyona ntakaikhethekileyo – intaka eyenzaimvula. Kuko konke okwakudalaokusakhunjulwayo ngabahlali balelali, babethe gqolo bezinika ithubalokugcina le ntaka yonwabilemaxesha onke. Babegcina ingququyesonka, amaqhekeza eziqhamokunye nobisi olutshalwekhokhonathi, kwaye rhoqongeveki okanye ngeeveki ezimbini,iqela labahlali bale lali bebethathaezi zimuncumuncu bazise ehlathini.Bayakuthi ke emva kokubabezandlele phantsi kwalo mthi, azeomnye adlale ngonyana ithilengepiyano edlalwa ngeminwe. Kuya kuthi ethubeni, ubone loontaka ibhabha isiza ezantsi ukuzakutya ize isele kananjalo. Iya kuthiyakugqiba, uyive iqalisa ukuculaeyona ngoma imyoli. Icula njalouyakuyibona inyusa amaphiko ayoaluhlaza amenyezelayo,kungekudala emva koko, imvulaiqalise ukuna. Oku kwaqhubeka iminyakaemininzi. Nanjengoko imvulayayisina rhoqo, izityalo zakhulangokwaneleyo kangangokubakwakho ukutya okuninzi kuloo lali.Kodwa ke kungekudala, izintozaqala ukutshintsha. Abahlali baloolali basuka bathanda ukuxakekazezinye izinto, kwaze okukwabangela ukuba balibalengentaka yemvula. ‘Kuza kunethanokuba kutheni,'babesitsho,‘liphelile ixesha lokufekethisa laantakana ngoku!' Kodwa ke ngelishwa, abantubabewuphosile umhlola. Bathebakuyeka ukuyikhathalela intaka,imvula yayeka ukuna. Izityalozaqala ukoma nokubuna,nezilwanyana zayimidyubhaebuthisayo. Nangona kunjalo,kwakungekho mntu kuloo laliwaphumayo ukuya ehlathini ukuzeondle intaka eyayibazisela imvula.Eyona nto babexakeke yiyo ngokukukwenza imali ukuze bayekuthenga ukutya kwiidolophuabamelene nazo. Ngaminazala ithile eyayitshisa kakhulu, intombazana encinciegama linguKetti yagqiba ekubeni iye ehlathini emva kokuphumakwesikolo. ‘Noko kuza kuphola phaya,' uzicingele ngaphakathi.Uhambile, wahamba, kwaze emva kwethutyana, wafika kumthiomde eyayihlala kuwo intaka yemvula. UKetti uqwalasele phezuluemthini. Kusenjalo, wakhumbula ngelaa xesha umakhulu wakhewayehamba naye ukuya apho ehlathini ukuze bondle intaka,nangona yena wayesemncinci. Kwangoko uvule itasi yakheyesikolo wakhupha intsalela yesonka ebishiyeke kwesoebesiphethe ukuya kwakhe esikolweni. Ngenkathalo nangobunono,ubeke eso sonka phantsi kwaloo mthi. Nanjengoko keebengaphethanga piyano edlalwa ngeminwe, uye wacula ingomaendala awayeyazi kakhulu kubomi bakhe.  Ngesandi esidandulukayo esikhulu,intakana eluhlaza entle yathi gqiemasebeni phezu kwentloko kaKettiyaze yaqalisa ukutya isonka. Itheyakugqiba ukutya le ntaka, yavulaumlonyana wayo yaze yaculaiinowuthi eziphezulu zengomangokucwengileyo.Kwangoko yanyusa amaphiko ayoakhazimlayo, kwangoko uKetti wevaukundila kwezulu. Uthe efikakowabo, kwabe sele kusiwaamachaphaza amakhulu emvula,epholisa loo mhlaba ubomvuutshisayo. UKetti wayechulumancile kakhulu, kodwa wadana emva kokubaexelele abazali bakhe ukuba kwenzeke ntoni. ‘Ungasigezeli!'wamngxolisa watsho umama wakhe. ‘Akusekho mntu ukholelwayoukuba laa ntaka inento yokwenza nemvula!'‘Unyanisile umama wakho,' utshilo utata kaKetti. ‘Imbalela iphelilengoku, kwaye izinto ziza kulunga kwakhona. Musa ukudyiwazangesonka esidingekayo ngokumana usiya kondla laa ntaka indalairhalayo kwakhona!'Nangona uKetti angazange aphikisane nabazali bakhe,wayeqinisekile ukuba bayaphazama. ‘Akwaba umakhuluebesaphila,' uthethele ngaphakathi, ‘yena ebeza kundikholelwa!'Kodwa ke kwakusele iyiminyaka eliqelana eswelekile umakhulukaKetti. Inye kuphela into awayesayigcinile uKetti kwezozikamakhulu, yayiyipiyano yeminwe kamakhulu wakhe.  Zigqithile iiveki ezimbini kungekhonethontsi lemvula. Ziphindileizityalo zantshwenca, zazezanyakazela iimbambo ngakumbiizilwanyana ezilambileyo. Ingqatsiniyelanga yahlaba ngokungenalusiniemhlabeni ukusuka kwesosibhakabhaka siluhlaza.‘Andikhathali nokuba bathini!'ucinge watsho uKetti. ‘Siyayidingaimvula. Ndiza kuya kuyondlakwakhona intaka ngomso!' Kwangentseni kusuku olulandelayo,emva kokuba ethathe isilayisesonka nesandla esigcwelengamaqubube abomvu kwikhitshilakowabo, uKetti unyebelezewaphuma endlwini. Nanko esingisekumbindi wehlathi.Akazange aqaphele kodwa ukubautata wakhe wayehleli ethe qwa.Uthe akubona oko kwenziwayintombi yakhe, waqonda ukuba izakuya kondla intaka yemvulakwakhona. ‘Ndiza kumfundisaisifundo kanene lo mntwanaungenambeko!' utshilo ezithethelangomsindo. Uthe hlasi isaphethasakhe neentolo zakhe wazewamlandela ngokuthe cwaka uKettiukuya ehlathini apho. Ithe kanye xa intaka isihla emthini isiza kudla ukutya ekubekelwenguKetti, utata wakhe waphakamisa isaphetha sakhe wazewadubula ngetolo elibulalayo. Itolo laya kungena ngqo entliziyweniyentaka. Intaka yatsho ngesikrakra sona isikhalo. Ngokoyikaokukhulu, uKetti waguquka – waba sele ebona utata wakhe esiwaphantsi, wafa ngoko nangoko. UKetti ukhalile waze wajika – seleebona itolo lisiwa lingayenzanga nomkrwelo lo wembala loo ntakainomzimba omenyezelayo. Nantso intaka, ingenawo nomncinciumenzakalo, indanda inyukela kwelona sebe liphezulu lomthi.  UKetti uphume egqotsile kwelohlathi, wathi xa esiya ekhayawafikela kumbono wentshabalaloengathethekiyo. Wonke umntuamaziyo nesilwanyana na kanene,babathe tywaa emhlabeni befile.Intliziyo yakhe iye yabethangamandla, wabaleka ukuyakowabo.Kwangoko ufumene laa piyanoidlalwe ngeminwe kamakhuluwakhe. ‘Kuphela kwethembaendinalo ke eli!' ucinge watsho.‘Intaka yemvula iqumbile. Kufunekandiyonwabise kwakhona! KUMELEndenze njalo!' Emva kwesiqingatha seyure, uKettiwayemi bhunxe phantsi komthiomkhulu. Umzimba wawubilexhopho kwaye ephefumlelaphezulu. Phaya qelele kancincikuye, kwakudunduluze umzimbakatata wakhe ofileyo.UKetti uye wajonga kudengokukhawuleza, waqalisa ukudlalaipiyano yeminwe ngezandlaezingcangcazelayo. Udlalile,wadlala, yade yaqaqamba iminweyakhe. Ekugqibeleni, kwenzeka eyona ntowayefuna yenzeke ehlabathini.Nantso intaka ibhabha isiza, loo ntokuyo kwakungathi akukho nento leikhe yenzeka. Intaka iye yatyaamanye amaqunube awayesathesaa apho emhlabeni yaze yaculaiinowuthi ezimbalwa zengoma.Uthe esadlala ingoma njalo uKetti,intaka yaphakamisa amaphiko ayo... uKetti weva ukurhashaza emvakwakhe. Kwakusenziwa kukuvuka kukatatawakhe.‘Ndicela uxolo!' utshilo izihlandlongezihlandlo ebhekisa kwintakaenkulu eluhlaza.Emva koko wabamba intombi yakhengesandla bagoduka bethe chuukuya elalini. Nalapho elalini, wonkeumntu wayevukilekwanezilwanyana ngokunjalo. Ngobo busuku abahlali belali bayebabamba intlanganiso. Bonke bayebavumelana ngamxhelo mnyeukuba bafunde isifundoesibalulekileyo. Ukusukela ngaloomini, akuzange kuphinde kubekhonanye iveki egqithayo kungakhangekuyiwe ehlathini ukuze kondliweintaka eyayibazisela imvula.

Umama ugcwalisaipheyile elibomvu. U-Abongile udlalangelori ebomvu. U-Deon uphetheiintyatyambo ezibomvu. U-Anti unxibe ijeziebomvu. Kukho ilanga elibomvuentla kotat'omkhulu. Kukho isithuthuthuesibomvu esimiseesitalatweni. Icikilishe elibomvulihleli phezukukaBabalwa. Injini ebomvu yokucimaumlilo isesitishini. Nanku uSibahle enxibeumntla obomvu. Uzama ukulinganisaiibhutsi ezibomvu. Azimlingani!

Rhoqo xa ndigqibakuhlamba kwibhafueshushu, shushu.Umzimba wam upholaube myoli myoli myoli.Ingaba ngubani owenzaoko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Ubisi kwikomityi yam –luyatshisa, tshisatshisa.Kodwa msinyanyeluyaphola ndiluginye.Ingaba ngubani owenzaoko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! IkhethiniiyaphaphathekaefestileniIndiphulule izidlele.Ingaba ngubani owenzaoko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Nako kubaneka, kudephaya.Amafu amnyamaayabaleka ayasondela.Ingaba ngubani owenzaoko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Imithi iyahexa,amagqabiayaphaphatheka.Iintyatyambo ziyawa.Ingaba ngubani owenzakonke oko?NguVayu, umoya! Kude nekhaya siyadlalaKodwa, ndiyalivaivumba leelekesezikamama.Ingaba ngubani owenzaoko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Nantso iglasi yokuselaefestileni.Yawa emhlabeniyaqhekeka.Enkosi bawo,bendingeko apho.Ngubani owenze loontlondi?Nakanjani!Nakanjani! Kukhala umlozi. Uloliweuyangena.Andimboni, kodwandiyakuva ukundilakwakhe.Ingaba ngubani owenzaoko kwenzeke?NguVayu, umoya! Akabonakali.Akavakali.Uwenza wonkeumsebenzi.Akaphosi neliswi.Ingaba ngubani?Nakanjani!Ngumoya!

"Sesiphi isilwanyana esishiye la maqanda apha?" kubuza uNja. "Ndicinga ukuba la maqanda ngaka Dada," watsho uNja. "Ndiza kuwa gada la maqanda," watsho ecinga uNja. "Ukhe wawabona amaqanda wam?" wabuza uXam."Hayi," kuphendula uNja. UXam wahambela zonke izilwanyana ebuzisa, "Nikhe nawabona amaqanda wam?" Aqandusela amaqanda. Abantwana baka Xam babesoloko belambile. UXam watyelela uNja.Waweva amantshontsho wakhe ngaphakathi kwendlu kaNja. UXam wakhawuleza wangena endlini kaNja, wamqhwaba. UXam wamleqa uNja wada wayomfikisa emlanjeni. "Uxolo, bendicinga ukuba ngamaqanda kaDada." "Ndiyakuxolela," watsho uXam. "Ngoku siya hamba siyo qubha."

Yabayintombazana encinane eyabona umbono omangalisayo usondela. Uthe xa ukufutshane, intomabazana yabona ukuba ngumama okhulelweyo. Yathi ithandabuza injalo, yaqweba isibindi yaya kuye umama okhulelweyo. Usana lwakhawuleza ukuza emva koko. Wonke umntu wayefuna ukuncedisa. Kodwa bathi abantu bakubona usana, batsiba bonke kukothuka. "Imbhongolo?!" Baqala baphikisana. "Besithe sizomkhusela umama kunye nosana. Kufuneka senze njalo," kwatsho abathile. "Kodwa bazosiphathela amashwa!" kwatsho abanye. Wazibona eyedwa kwakhona umama. Wayexakiwe ukuba uzoluthini olusana olusisimanga kangaka. Wayengazi nokuba makazithini yena kuqala. Kodwa ekugqibeleni, walwamkela usana lwakhe. Intokunayo, ukuba usana lwaluye lwahlala luluncinci lunjalo, izinto ngezingazange zijike. UMbhongolo olusana wakhula, wakhula wade wangalingani kumama emqolo. Wathi noba ezama kangakanani, wangakwazi ukuziphatha ngendlela eqhelekileyo yabantu. Umsindo wazala ngaphakathi kuMbhongolo. Emva koko uMbhongolo wathi shu ziintloni. Wabaleka ngokukhawuleza, wemka. Ubaleke kwade kwabasebusuku, waziqonda ukuba ulahlekile. Uthe xa evuka uMbhongolo wabona ixhego angalaziyo limjongile. Walijonga naye emehlweni waziva efikelwa yintwana yethemba. UMbhongolo wahamba wayohlala nalo ixhego. Ixhego lamfundisa iindlela ngeendlela zokuphila. UMbhongolo waphulaphula, wafunda lukhulu. Nexhego nalo lafunda kuMbhongolo. Bahlala kamnandi bencedisana bonwabile. Kuthe ngenye intseni, ixhego lacela uMbhongolo ukuba aliqabelise phezu kwentaba. Bathe xa bephezulu, phakathi kwamafu, bozela balala. UMbhongolo waphupha ngathi umama wakhe uyagula, uyambiza. Xa evuka, amafu abe enyamalele nomhlobo wakhe, ixhego naye enyamalele. UMbhongolo wayazi into ekufuneka eyenzile. Wemka wayofuna umama wakhe. Wamfumana eyedwa elilela usana lwakhe olulahlekileyo. Xa bebonana, baqala ngokujongana ithuba elide. Emva koko bawolana ngamandla. Ngoku uMbhongolo, usana olusisimanga benomama sebefunde izifundo ezininzi ngendlela yokuphila kamnandi kunye. Ngokuya kusiya nezinye iintsapho nazo zithoba umxhelo.

Ubusika obuqhaqhazelisa amazinyo babusele budlulile. Kwakusele kuza kungena iNtwasahlobo elalalini kaKhwezi. Kungekudala abahlali babesele belungiselela ukubhiyozela ixesha lokuthwasa konyaka, iNtwasahlobo. UKhwezi wayelulangazelela ngaphezulu kwezinye iintsuku olu suku lokubhiyozelwa kokuthwasa kwehlobo. Ngenye imini wathi uKhwezi ezihlelele nje, weva abantu abadala ababini bexoxa ngalo mbhiyozo. "Abantu balapha eNdlovu abasenawo umdla nomoya wokubhiyozela ukuthwasa kwehlobo," watsho omnye waba. "Singakubhiyozela njani ukuthwasa kwehlobo njengokuba abantu sele balibalayo ngalo mbhiyozo?" Wabuza omnye. Kwamkhathaza kakhulu ukuva le nto uKhwezi. "Liza kuphinde libe shushu njani ilanga xa singalivusi ebuthongweni basebusika?" wazibuza. Wahlala wacinga ixesha elide. "Kufuneka ndifumanise ukuba yintoni kanye kanye esingasayaziyo," wathatha esi sigqibo. "Kufuneka ndihambe ndiyokufuna izinto ezingabuyisa umdla nomoya wokubhiyozela eli xesha lonyaka." Abantu abadala bamsikelela kuhambo awayeza kuluthatha. Bamnika isingxobo awayeza kufaka kuso izinto awayeza kuzifumana eluhambeni. UKhwezi wayesoyika kodwa ekwakholelwa ekubeni uhambo lwakhe luza kuba yimpumelelo. UKhwezi wahamba imini yonke. Wayesenyuka aphinde ehle emimangweni. Wawela umlambo omkhulu wenyuka nasemaweni. Wahamba njalo edlula amathafa waze wayokufika phantsi kweentaba ezibomvu. Ngokuhlwa, uKhwezi wafika elalini eyayinezindlu ezipeyintwe ngeephatheni ezimibalabala awayengazange ayibone ngaphambili. Waxelela abantu abadala bakule lali ngohambo lwakhe nezicwangciso zakhe zokubuyisela ukubhiyozelwa kwentwasahlobo. Umama wesi sizwe afikele kuso wapha uKhwezi isipho. Wathi kuye, "Sikupha le peyinti ngothando olukhulu, yeyona eza kubuyisa umbala elalini yakho esele ikhangeleka imthuqwasi ngebala." UKhwezi wabulela kakhulu kubantu abadala waze wafaka ipeyinti esingxotyeni sakhe. Ekuseni ngemini elandelayo, waqhubeka nohambo lwakhe. Wayonwabe kakhulu sisipho sakhe sombala. UKhwezi wahamba imini yonke ethubeleza phakathi kwemithi emikhulu yasehlathini. Kuthe xa kuqalisa ukuhlwa, apho wayengasaboni kakuhle weva isandi segubu elikhalayo. Waxhabashela apho lalikhala ngakhona igubu eziva elangazelela ukuxhentsa nangona iinyawo zakhe zazidiniwe nje. UKhwezi wabona sele efikile elalini yakwaBhubesi. Wafika abantu behleli berhangqe umlilo bebetha amagubu becula nokucula. Wayengazange awuve umculo omnandi ngolwa hlobo. Wafika wabachazela ngehambo yakhe abantu abadala bale lali. Wabaxelela ngohambo lwakhe olunjongo zikukubuyisa ukubhiyozelwa kwentwasahlobo kwilali yakokwabo. Abantu bakwaBhubesi bamcela ukuba alale ngobo busuku ukuze aphumle. Ekuseni inkosi yabiza uKhwezi. "Mntwan'am' yatsho inkosi, "Nali igubu elingafaniyo namanye. Lidlala ingoma entsha ngalo lonke ixesha uqalisa ukulidlala." UKhwezi wabulela kakhulu. Wathatha igubu walifaka esingxotyeni sakhe. Waqhubeka nohambo lwakhe esivuyela kakhulu isipho sakhe sokudlala iingoma ezinesingqisho eziza kwenza ukuba abantu bavakalelwe baxhentse." Ngosuku lwesithathu lohambo lwakhe wathi uKhwezi xa egqitha kumadlelo eenkomo ezityebileyo zale lali, waqala warhogola ivumba elithile. Yayilivumba lenyama. Wathi akuva eli vumba wavuza izinkcwe. Wahamba walandela umkhondo oya kwicala apho laliphuma ngakhona ivumba elimnandi de wayokufika. Wafika abantu belali bemile bejikeleze iimbiza ezazipheke unqweme. Esi sizwe sasidume kakhulu ngokupheka kwaye uKhwezi wayengazange akungcamle okunjalo ukuba mnandi ukutya ngaphambili. Emveni kokuba etyile, waqala wachazela abantu ngohambo lwakhe. Wabaxelela ngeenjongo zakhe zokubuyisela umbhiyozo wentwansahlobo kubantu belali yakhe. Ngentseni elandelayo, iqela labapheki lamnika iziqholo zokutya ezazingaziwa mntu. "Ntwazana," batsho abapheki, "Xa usebenzisa ezi ziqholo zokutya, abantu abaza kutya ukutya kwakho baza kwaneliseka nakanjani! Sikupha isipho esiza kukwenza ukuba upheke ukutya okunambithekayo." UKhwezi wabulela waphaphatha, wathatha iziqholo wazifaka kwisingxobo sakhe. Wayesazi ukuba wayezifumene zonke izinto awayezidinga. Waziva esemandleni waza waqalisa uhambo lwakhe olubuyela elalini yakwaNdlovu. Wathi xa efika ekhaya babe abahlali bemvuyela, bemjikeleza befuna ukuva konke ngohambo lwakhe. Waqala wababalisela ngayo yonke into ayibonileyo, ayivileyo nayityileyo. Emva koko wavula isingxobo sakhe wababonisa izinto awayeziphiwe. Abantu belali bavuya kakhulu baze bazamkela ezi zipho. Ububele nesisa sabanye abantu kunye nobugorha bukaKhwezi babuyisela umbala, umculo kunye nomxhentso kubantu belali. Le, yaba yindlela owabuyiswa ngayo umoya wokubhiyozela intwasahlobo kubantu belali yakwaNdlovu.

UTingi wayehlalanomakhulu wakhe. Wayesoloko enakekelaiinkomo kunye naye. Ngenye imini amajoniafika. Athatha zonke iinkomo. UTungi kunyenomakhulu babalekabazimela. Bazimela ehlathinikwade kwasebusuku. Ke ngoku aphindaabuya amajoni. Umakhulu wafihlauTingi phantsikwamahlahla. Elinye lamajoni labekainyawo lalo phezukwakhe, kodwa wayewathula. Xa bebona ukubabakhuselekile, uTingikunye nomakhulubaphuma. Ke ngoku bachwechwababuyela ekhayabethule.

Ndiyamthanda utitshala wam. Mhle, ufundisa kakuhle, unobuntu aze abe nomonde. Namhlanje, uziphothe kakuhle kakhulu iinwele zakhe. Ufake namaso anemibala emihle kakhulu. Khawubuke amaso akhe, aluhlaza, namhlophe, nabomvu, namthubi. Mama, ndicela uphothe iinwele zam, nam ndifane notitshala. Ukuba bendimdala bendiza kunxiba amaso ezinweleni zam. Nam ndiyakurhalela ukuba mhle ndifane notitshala wam!

Eli bali lithetha ngoMgcininekhaya lakhe lezilwanyanaeziziinkedama. Le nyanga iphelileyoibixakeke kakhulu kwelikhaya. UNomsa ononyakaomnye ezelwe wabangokowokuqala ukufika.Wayebhityile ekhathazekile. Kodwa ngokukhawuleza,uNomsa womelela. Waqalisaukudlala nezinye izilwanyana. Ngenye imini kulonyanga,kwafika inqwelo-ntaka kwelokhaya leenkedama. Kulo nqwelo-ntaka kwakukhointshontsho lendlovulombathiswe ngenguboenkulu. UNdiwa wayephantsikwengubo. Wayeneentsukuezintlanu ubudala. UMgciniwancancisa uNdiwa ibhotile. Ngobunye ubusuku, wonkeumntu wavuswa kukufikakuka Ambia. UAmbia wayeneenyangaezintlanu ubudala.Wayebuthathaka emvakohambo lwakhe olude. Ngenxa yentamo yakhe ende,uMgcini wayibambelaphezulu ibhotile encancisauAmbia. Iinkedama zokugqibelaukufika kulo nyanga zilambileyayingamantshontsho uKopi,uKepi kunye noKeji. UMgcini nabancedi bakhebazithanda zonkeizilwanyana, nditshonezihluphayo. Abantu abakwikhayalenkedama basebenzangamandla. Bathemba ukubangenye imini iinkedamazingakwazi ukuziphilela. Ezizilwanyana zibuyele endle.

Kudala-dala bengekabikho abantu.UMdali wayejonge ezantsikwihlabathi elihle awayelidalile.Wacinga kwelokuba abenomntuozakujonga indalo yakhe. Ingonyama yagquma, “Ndiyinkosiyehlathi, ndingalijonga ihlabathi.” Yatsho ngesandi sexilongo indlovu,“Nkosi yam, undidale ndamkhulukuzo zonke izilwanyana.Ndingoyena owufaneleyo lomsebenzi.” UMnenga, intlazi enkulu kuzo zonke iintlanzi,wajonga phezulu esibhakabhakeni watshiza amanzi,“Ingaba aba bazigqatsayo bayakwazi ukuqubhakwakunye nokubona iintlanzi, ezimibalabala,ezihamba ziligquba kwakunye nezigidi zezilwanyanaezincinane zaselwandle? Ndiyakwazi ukubonaulwandle, ndiyakwazi kanti nokuveza intloko yamngaphezu kwamanzi ndijonge ukuba kwenzeka ntoniphezu komhlaba. Ndinomzimba omkhulu, akukhonamnye onokwenza ngokuthanda kwakhe.” Ukrebe yayicinga ukuba kufunekaamazinyo wayo abukhali kuphelaukwenza loo msebenzi. Ukhozi lwahleka, “Ezi zilwanyanazikwazi ukubona izilwanyanaezisemhlabeni kuphela. UMnenganeShark zona zikwazi ukubonaizilwanyana zaselwandle kuphela.Kodwa mna ndiyabhabha,ndiyasibona isibhakabhaka,umhlaba kunye namanzi. Ndimkuphela okulungeleyo ukubangumgcini wehlabathi.” UMdali waziphulaphula ngocoselelo ezi zilwanyana,iintlanzi kwakunye neentaka. “Ndizakudala umntu,”watsho. Zonke izilwanyana zamangaliswa,yayiyintoni le nto kuthiwa “nguMntu.” Linjani ibalalayo, ingaba ineentsiba, uboya okanye amaxolookwentlanzi?Ingaba uyakubaleka okwengonyama?Aqubhe okwentlanzi?Abhabhele phezulu okoKhozi? Kwakusele kusihlwa ilanga lisiya kutshonela. Kwabasebusuku. Wagquma umdali okwesibhakabhakaebusuku, wafaka ukuphinziza kweenkwenkweziemehlweni, waza wathatha ubumnyama bamafuwenza ngabo iinwele. Wabeka amasuntswanaenyanga ekupheleni kweminwe wenza iinzipho wazawathatha nokukhazimla kweenkwenkwezi wenzangako amazinyo. Umfazi nendoda yokuqala badalwangezikhumba ezikhazimlayo ezifana nobusuku. Ngokukhawuleza baphela ubusukukwaba kusasa. UMdali wagqumangokukhanya kokusa, wathabathauhlaza lwesibhakabhaka walufakaemehlweni, wathatha umthubiwelanganga wawufaka ezinwelenikwaza phambi kwakhe kwemaindoda nomfazi abanezikhumbaezimhlophe, amehlo aluhlaza kunyeneenwele ezimthubi. Intsasa yajika kwaba semvakwemini. Ilanga lalikhazimlakakhulu, ngoko ke watsalaukukhanya okumthubi kunyenomthunzi omnyama wenza indodanomfazi abanesikhumba esimthubi,iinwele ezimnyama kunye namehloakekeleyo ukwenzela bajongeilanga. Kwakusihlwa ke ngoku, isibhakabhaka sasimthuqwasisele kuvele neekwenkwezi ezimbalwa. UMdaliwajonga ezantsi wabona ubuhle bombala womhlabaomdaka otyebileyo kunye nombala wesibhakabhakawenza ngayo isikhumba somntu. Umbala omnyamawobusuku wawusebenzisa ukwenza iinwele wazawasebenzisa ukukhazimla kweenkwenkwezi ukwenzaamehlo. Phambi kwakhe kwema indoda nomfaziabanesikhumba esingumbala omdaka, iinweleezimnyama kunye namehlo amnyama. Zamangaliswa izilwanyana zijongeesi sidalwa singaqhelekanga simangemilenze emibini, sinesikhumbaesingagqunywanga, singenaboya,iintsiba okanye amaxolo afananawentlanzi. Ingonyama yajongaezantsi kuloo mpumlo yayoyagquma, “Ndinamendu kunabokwaye ndingwabaqhwetha kubekanye ngeenzipho zam ndibabulale,uxolo UKUBA NDITSHO.” IZebra yacebisa, “Imigca embalwaingabenza babukeke.”INgwe yathi, “Namachokozaambalwa.”INdlovu yatsho ngelo xilongo layo,“Mhlawumbi bebeyakujongekangcono ngomnye umbala.” Ukrebe yajonga amazinyo wabo yancuma ibonisaamazinyo wayo abukhali. “Ah! Abanayo imisilayokuqubha, Bazakuqubha njani? Kodwa bazakujonganathi. Ha! Ha! Ha!Iintlanzi, ezinkulu nezincinane zahleka zatshozitsibela emanzini ziphelile yintsini. UMdali wahleka epholile, “Niyabona, ukuze niphile,umntu kufuneka ajonge izilwanyana, ulwandle,izityalo kunye nemithi emikhulu nemincinane. Mhlaumntu waqala ukutshabalalisa indalo ngenxayokunyoluka, naye uyakutshabalala.” Izilwanyana,iintlanzi kunye neentaka zathoba iintloko zazozinethemba lokuba ziya kukhuseleka.Ngoko ke, WENA kunye NAM, masinakekele ihlabathilethu elihle.

Ngenye imini,izilwanyana zathathaisigqibo sokwenzaitheko. Kodwakwakungangeni zonkeizilwanyana. Yayilithekolezilwanyanaezineempondo zodwa. Umvundla wayewazilungiselela ukuyaethekweni. Kodwawafumanisa ukubaasilolika wonke-wonke.Yayilele zilwanyanaezineempondo zodwa. Umvundla wayandaweni ithilewafumana mpondozithile. Waye wazibekakuye entloko wazewaya ethekweni. Ngexesha esethekweniumvundla waye watya,wasela, wadewaxhentsa. Lento yamenzawadinwa waze walalaelangeni. Kodwangelixesha aleleyo,iimpondo zaye zawa! Ke ngoko, zonkeizilwanyana zayezafumanisa ukubaumvundla lo akasiso esisilwanyana bebecingaukuba siso. Ke ngoku,zaye zamtsalangeendlebe zadezanwebeka kakhulu. Waze wabaleka.Yiyo lento imivundlaineendlebe ezinkulu!

Kudala-dala kwaye kukho ikumkani egama layo linguKayanja. Yayihlala ebhotwe kunye nekumkanikazi nentombi yabo, unkosazana, Apenyo. U-Apenyo wayeyinkosazana entle, kangangokuba onke amadoda ayefuna ukumtshata. Kodwa ukumkani uKayanja wayefuna ilobola exabisa kakhulu ngentombi yakhe. Kufutshane nebhotwe lekumkani uKayanja kwakuhlala inkosi eyayisaziwa ngokuba ngu-Aludah Omkhulu. Kwakusithiwa, 'Omkhulu' ngoba bonke abantu belali babemhlonipha. Wayendlongondlongo kakhulu kubantu ababengamhloneli. Inkosikazi yeNkosi u-Aludah yayisandula kubhubha sisifo semalariya, ngoko u-Aludah wayefuna ukuthatha enye inkosikazi. Ngoko inkosi endala etyebileyo yaya kukumkani uKayanja iyokunikezela ngelobola yayo enkulu kuze itshate inkosazana encinane. Athi xa amadoda amakhulu exovula umba welobola kwathi kanti uyaweva uKakembo, owayengumsebenzi ebhotwe. Umsebenzi uKakembo wayehlobene kakhulu nenkosazana u-Apenyo. Inkosi yavuma ukunika ihafu yobutyebi bayo kukumkani uKayanja, obuquka inaliti eyayiyinxalenye yelobola. Kwenziwa amalungiselelo abucala omtshato phakathi kwenkosi u-Aludah kunye nenkosazana u-Apenyo. Ikumkani yayisazi ukuba intombi yayo ayisokuze isithande esi sigqibo. Kuthe sele kusele iveki enye kuphela phambi kokuba ifike imini yomtshato, uKakembo waya kuthetha noApenyo, wathi, "Nkosazana yami ethandekayo, utata wakho ucwangcisa umtshato wakho nenkosi u-Aludah, kwaye uza kwenzeka kwiveki ezayo." Inkosazana u-Apenyo yothuka kakhulu ingazi ukuba iza kwenza njani. Wacinga, wacinga, wacinga u-Apenyo, waze wathi, "Andisokuze mna nditshate nenkosi u-Aludah, ixhego elibi elityebileyo. Unotshe! Mandiye kuTrevor ndibone ukuba angenza ntoni, lisekhona ixesha." UTrevor wayelisoka likankosazana u-Apenyo. Ngobo busuku u-Apenyo wanyonyoba waphuma ebhotwe. Ukuba utata wake wayenokwazi ukuba uyaphi wayeza kucaphuka kakhulu. Wabaleka wadlula ehlathini elimnyama thsu, elishinyeneyo. Watsiba amatye nezihlahla de wayokufika kuTrevor wakhe. Wafika kwaTrevor ediniwe, elambile, futhi enxaniwe. "Sithandwa sam, kungani ukuba ubaleke umgama ongaka wedwa ezinzulwini zobusuku?" kwabuza uTrevor. Wamphathela amanzi okusela waze wamnika ithuba lokuphumla. UTrevor wayengasakwazi ukulinda ngelixa u-Apenyo asaziphumzayo. "Nkosazana yam endiyithandayo, ingaba yintoni ingxaki?" wabuza uTrevor. U-Apenyo waphefumlela phezulu kalusizi waze wathi, "Utata ufuna ukunditshatisa nenkosi u-Aludah, omkhulu. Kodwa andisoze nditshate indoda ekhohlakele ngolwahlobo. Trevor, ndifuna ukutshata nawe nokuba awunanto. Ndikulungele ukuhlupheka. Ndiyakuthanda." "Kodwa nkosazana, andinanto endinokukulobola ngayo, uyazi nawe ukuba ndiyindoda ehluphekayo," watsho uTrevor. U-Apenyo waphendula wathi, "Ndiyazi Trevor, kodwa ndifuna ukutshata wena kuphela." Wacinga ixeshana u-Apenyo waze wathi, "Masiye kuKategga indoda yesikhephe asiwelise siye ngaphesheya komlambo. Ngale ndlela, singesaba, utata angaze aphinde asifumane." Emva ebhotwe, ikumkani uKayanja yayisele ibonile ukuba inkosazana u-Apenyo yayinyamalele. Wathumela abantu bakhe ukuba bayifune kuyo yonke indawo elalini. Amaphakathi eKumkani, amajoni kunye naye wonke umntu bacinga ngendawo awayenokuba uzifihle kuyo, kodwa abazange bamfumane u-Apenyo. Babuyela emva beyokuxelela ikumkani ukuba akafumaneki ndawo u-Apenyo. "Hambani niyokumfuna ehlathini," wabhavumla ukumkani uKayanja. Wayenomsindo ngeyona ndlela. Ngelixa inkosazana u-Apenyo noTrevor bebaleka ukuya emlanjeni, kwaqalisa ukusibekela aze amafu amnyama asigquma isibhakabhaka. Kwakusiza isaqhwithi esikhulukazi. UKategga umqhubi wesikhephe wayesabophelela isikhephe sakhe ngelixa aba bathandanayo befika kuye. UTrevor wacela uKategga ukuba abakhwelise kwisikhephe sakhe abawelise umlambo. UKategga akazange avume, wabachazela ukuba isaqhwithi sele sikufutshane, ngoko kwakuza kuba yingozi kakhulu ukuzama ukuwela. UTrevor waqhubekeka wachazela uKategga isizathu sokufuna kwabo ukuwela umlambo. Wasuka wafaka isandla sakhe epokothweni wakhupha imali wayinika uKategga. Wathi akuyiva imeko yabo uKategga, ebona nemali ebengezelayo, wavelana nabo. Wavuma ukubawelisa umlambo nangona izulu lalizongoma. UKategga watsalela isikhephe sakhe ngasenyeleni yomlambo waze wabaxelela ukuba bangene. Waqalisa ukubhexa. Bathe xa ukumkani uKanyanja nenkosi u-Aludah befika enyeleni yomlambo, bababona aba bathathu esikhepheni. Babona ukuba izithandani zesabile. Umoya omkhulu owawuvuthuza wasisa ngapha nangapha isikhephe waze uKategga wasokola ukusilawula. IKumkani uKayanja yakwaza: "Apenyo, ndicela ubuye! Ndikuxolele, kwaye andisokuze ndinohlwaye wena noTrevor." Kodwa kwakusele kusemva kwesithonga. Isikhephe saphequka baze abantu ababekuso baphoseka emanzini. Bobathathu barhaxwa ngamanzi. Ukususela loo mini yentlekele, wonke umntu kwisizwe sikaKumkani uKayanja wakhululeka ukuba atshate naye nabani na amfunayo, nokuba usisityebi okanye ulihlwempu na.

Lo nguNdalo. UNdalo uthanda ukufunda iincwadi. Lona nguPendo. UPendo uthanda ukutya iminqathe. UNdalo wolusa uPendo xa ebuya esikolweni. Umseza amanzi acocekileyo napholileyo. Utata kaNdalo upha uPendo ukutya kwakhe. Utata usenga uPendo yonke imihla. UPendo uyohlisa. Utata uyalithengisa ubisi lukaPendo. UNdalo usela ubisi olutsha yonke imihla. UNdalo uyabulela, "Enkosi Pendo!"

Kudala-dala,umnumzanauNgonyamawayengukumkaniwehlathi. Wathuma izilwanyanazakhe ukubaziyokuphelisa ingxoloeyayisechibini aphaehlathini. Kodwa zangeziphumelele. Indlovu yazigqatsaukuyayiphelisa. Indlovuleyo yathunywa ukubaiyokugada. Ezinzulwini zobusukuyaqalisa ingxolo yazeindlovu yaqalisaukubulala amasele.Yaphinda ngosukuolulandelayo yenzangokukwanjalo. Emva kweevekana,waba novuyo ukumkaniuNgonyama ngobaundlovu wayeyiphelisileiingxolo. Kodwa emvakwenyanga, babonaizinambuzane ezininzientsimini yabo. Ukumkani uNgonyamawacela undlovu ukubaabize amasele azotyaizinambuzane. Waba noloyiko undlovungoba wayewabuleleonke. Wathi, "Uxolo,ndi-ndi-ndi-ndiye,ndiwabulala!" Wathi ukumkaniuNgonyama, "Ndlovu,ndakucela ukubauphelise ingxolo, hayiukuba ubulaleamasele." Waze ukumkaniwaxelela zonkeizilwanyana ukubazisoloko zisenza ngqointo ayithethileyo.

ULilitha noLuniko babehlala esixekweni notata wabo. Babekulangazelela kakhulu ukuya eholideyini. Babengafuni nje ukuba izikolo zivalwe kodwa babefuna ukuya kutyelela umakhulu wabo. Wayehlala elalini enechibi elikhulu ekulotywayo kulo. ULilitha noLuniko bachulumanca lakufika ixesha lokuyokutyelela umakhulu kwakhona. Phezolo, ngobusuku obungaphambili bapakisha iibhegi zabo belungiselela uhambo olude oluya elalini. Babengakwazi ukulala yimincili baze bahlala bancokola ngeholide yabo ubusuku bonke. Ekuseni ngemini elandelayo, bahamba ngemoto katata wabo ukuya ezilalini. Yahamba imoto igqitha iintaba, izilwanyana zasendle kunye namahlathi. Emva kwexesha elide behamba, abantwana badinwa baze balala. Utata wabo uLilitha noLuniko wabavusa besakufika elalini. Bafika umakhulu wabo uNobuntu ephumle phantsi komthi. Igama elithi 'Nobuntu' ngesiXhosa lithetha umntu oxabise abanye abantu nozaziyo ukuba ungumntu ngabanye abantu. Wayelinina elihle elisele liqinile. UNobuntu wabamkela emzini wakhe waze wadanisa ngaphakathi luvuyo. Abazukulwana bakhe bona babechumancile ngelixa babemnika izipho ababemthengele zona esixekweni. "Vula isipho sam kuqala," watsho uLilitha. "Hayi makhulu, vula esam kuqala!" watsho uLuniko. Emveni kokuba ezivulile izipho, uNobuntu wabasikelela abazukulwana bakhe ngokwesithethe. Emva koko uLilitha noLuniko baphuma baya phandle. Baqalisa ukuleqa amabhabhathane neentaka. Bakhwela emithini, batshizana nangamanzi echibini. Ngokuhlwa babuyela endlwini bayokutya isopholo. Kodwa basuka bozela phambi kokuba bagqibe ukutya kwabo. Ngemini elandelayo utata wabantwana wabuyela esixekweni ebashiya nomakhulu wabo uNobuntu. ULilitha noLuniko bancedisa umakhulu wabo ukwenza imisebenzi yasekhaya. Bayokukha amanzi futhi baya kutheza. Baqokelela amaqanda eenkukhu bakha nemifuno egadini. Umakhulu uNobuntu wabafundisa abantwana bakhe ukupheka ipapa ababeza kuyitya nonqweme. Wababonisa nendlela yokupheka umngqusho oneembotyi. Ngenye intsasa, uLilitha wakhaphela iinkomo zikamakhulu emadlelweni. Ngelishwa zangena entsimini yommelwane. Ummelwane waba nomsindo kakhulu yinto kaLilitha yokuyeka iinkomo zingene entsimini yakhe. Wamothusa ngokuba uza kuzibamba iinkomo ezitya izityalo zakhe. Emva kwaloo mini, uLilitha waqinisekisa ukuba iinkomo aziphindi zimfake engxakini kwakhona. Ngenye imini abantwana baya emarikeni noNobuntu. Wayenestendi athengisa imifuno, amagwinya kunye nenyama kuso. ULuniko wayekuthanda ukuchazela abantu ngamaxabiso ezinto. ULilitha ekuthanda ukupakisha izinto ezithengiweyo. Emva kwemini babeye baphunge ibholani kunye. Babencedisa umakhulu nokubala ingeniso ayenzileyo. Kodwa iintsuku zeholide zafikelela ekupheleni ngokukhawuleza kwaye abantwana kwafuneka ukuba babuyele esixekweni kwakhona. UMakhulu wanika uLilitha ikepusi, waze wanika uLuniko isikipa. Wabapakishela umphako elungiselela uhambo lwabo. Wathi xa utata wabo ebuya ezokubalanda, abantwana abafuna ukuhamba. Bamcenga, bambongoza uNobuntu ukuba ahambe nabo ukuya esixekweni. Umakhulu yena wancuma waze wathi, "Ndimdala kakhulu ukuba ndingahlala esixekweni. Ndiza kunilinda ukuba nizokundityelela apha elalini kwakhona." ULilitha noLuniko bamqinisa ukumwola oku baze bamsalisa kakuhle. Bakufika esikolweni uLilitha noLuniko bababalisela bonke abahlobo babo ngobomi baselalini. Abanye abantwana babecinga ukuba ubomi basesixekweni bobona bulungileyo. Abanye bona babecinga ukuba obaselalini bobona bungcono. Kodwa, ngaphezu kwento yonke, wonke umntu wavumelana noLilitha noLuniko ukuba banomakhulu othandekayo!

Kudala kwakukho indodaeyayihluphekile kunye nenkosikayiyayo. Babenomntwana omnyekuphela, intombazana, egamalinguNonkungu.UNonkungu wayemhle kwayeenobubele.Abazali bakhe babemthandakakhulu. Ngenye imini abazali bakhe bagqibakwelokuba bathumele uNonkunguayokuhlala nomalume wakheuMtonyama. Umalume uMtonyamawayeyondoda eyayifumile.Umama kaNonkungu wenzaumbhinqo owodwa ngeribhoni,amaqhosha nneentsimbi. Wenzanentsimbi yomqala entle, esenzelauNonkungu.Ngenye intsasa kwakusasa,uNonkungu wabashiya abazalbakhe esiya kumzi kamalumewakhe. Endleleni uNonkungu wafikaemfuleni.Wawuwela umfula, esebenzisaamatye okucangcatha.Kwicala elingaphesheya wadibananentombazana elula inxibeamadlakadlaka. “Uya phi na?” Yabuza intombazanaelula. “Ndiya kundwendwelaumalume wam uMtonyama,”watsho uNonkungu.“Loo nto iyammangaliso,” yatshointombazana elula. UMtonyamangumalume wam nam, kwaye namndisendleleni eya kundwendwelayena.” Yaza ke intombazana elula yathi,“Umbhinqo wakho mhle kakhulunazo iintsimbi zakho zintllengokunjalo. Nceda undivumelendizilinganise.”Ngoko ke uNonkungu wakhululaumbhinqo neentsimbi. Intombazana elula yakhululaamadlavu ayo, waza uNonkunguwabona ukuba intombazana elulainomsila. UNonkungu wayazi ngokuukuba intombazana elula ngeneneyimbulu. Woyika uNonkungu.Imbulu yanxiba umbhinqonentsimbi yomqala. WazauNonkungu wanxiba amadlavu. Bahamba kunye. Emva kokubabehambe umganyana omfutshane,uNonkungu wathi kwimbulu, “Ncedaundinike umbhinqo wam neentsimbizam.”Kha undivumele ndizinxibe sidesiyokufika kulaa mthi,” yatshoimbulu, isalatha umthi osendulini. Xa befika emthini, uNonkungu wathikwimbulu, “Nceda undinikeumbhinqo neentsimbi zam.”Kha undivumele ndizinxibe sidesifike kulaa mfula ulandelayo,”yatsho imbulu. UNonkunguwayesoyika ngoko ke wavuma. Ekugqibeleni bafika emfuleni.Kwakhona uNonkungu wabuzaimbulu, “Nceda undinike umbhinqowam neentsimbi zam.” Khaundiyeke ndizinxibe nje sidesiyokufika kulaa ndlu, apho abafazibahleli khona,” yatsho imbulu. Bazabaqhubeka behamba. Bathi bakufika endlwini, imbuluyatyhalela uNonkungu ngemva,yaza yathi kubafazi abahlelingasendlwini, “Jongani lentombazana inxibe amadlavu.Ebesoloko elandelana nam iminiyonke. Ndinqwenela ukubaahambe.”UNonkunga waba neentloninoloyiko, kangangokuba wabalekelaebuhlanti, wazimela. Yaza imbulu yaya kwindlukamalume uMtonyama yathi, “Ndingumtshana wakho, uNonkungu.Abazali bam bandithumele ukubandizokuhlala nawe.” UMtonyamawayamkela intombazana elulaeyayiyimbulu ngenene.UMtonyama nosapho lwakhebabenobubele kwimbulu kubababecinga ukuba nguNonkungu.Kodwa usizana olunguNonkungukwafuneka lulale ebuhlanti abelanenezinja ngokutya. Emini uNonkungu waya ethafenii,wacula:“Owu! Kha undisizele, ndisizele.Bendithunywe ngutata nomamaUkuba ndiyokuhlala nomalume,uMtonyama.Endleleni ndadibana nembuluyaza yathatha umbhinqo wamneentsimbi zam.Owu! Ndisizele, ndisizele.” Ngenye imini abanye abantu bayivale ngoma, baxelela uMtonyamaukuba bekukho intombazana elulaethafen,i ecule eyona ngomaimnandi nelusizi. Ngaloo mvakwemini uMtonyama waya ethafeni.Weva umntu othile ecula.Walinda emva kwesihlahla,wamamela. UMtonyama wayakwimvumi. Yayinxibe amadlavuembulu. UMtonyama wayibuza, “Ungubani,Ungumtshana wam, uNonkungu?”Waza uNonkungu wamxelela intoeyenzekileyo. UMtonyamawamthatha uNonkunguwambuyisela endaweni yakhe,wamzimelisa endlwini. UMtonyama wakhe weva ukubaumsila wembulu uyaluthanda ubisikwaye awunakulidlula ngaphandlekokusela intwana yalo. Ngoko keuMtonyama waxelela amadodaakhe ukuba ombe umjelo onzuluukuze awuzalise umjelo ngamasi. Aza onke amantombazana elaliabizelwa kwindawoyakwaMtonyama ukuya kuthathainxaxheba kugqatso lokutsiba.Intombazana nganye yayizakutsibangaphezu komjelo. Intombazanaeyayinxibe umbhinqo neentsimbizikaNonkungu yayixhalabile. Zangeifune ukutsiba phezu kumjelo.Yayisazi ukuba umsila wayo uzakunxanelwa amasi. Ngoko keimbulu yaya endlwini, yazayabophelela umsila wayo emzinjeniwayo kangangoko inako. Wazawathatha indawo yakhenjengamanye amantombazana. Ekugqibeleni yaba lithuba lembuluukutsiba. Yazama ukutsibelaphezulu ngaphaya komjelo, kodwaumsila wayo waqhawuka,waphuncuka, wayitsalela ezantsi,ezantsi, ezantsi emasini. Njengoko iduntsalaza emasini,amadoda akhawuleza azalisaumjelo ngesanti aza ayingcwabaimbulu. Yaba sisiphelo sayo. KodwauNonkungu wahlala ngokonwabanomalume wakhe ixesha elidekakhulu.Yabasisiphelo sebali.

Kwidolophukazi exakekileyo yaseNairobi,kude le nekhaya elinenkathalo,kwakuhlala iqela lamakhwenkweangenakhaya. Babejongana nosukungalunye ngendlela oluze ngayo.Ngantsasa ithile la makhwenkweayesonga iingutyana zawo zokulalaemva kokulala kwipavumente ebandayo.Babebasa umlilo ngenkukuma ukugxothaingqele.Phakathi kwala makhwenkwe kwakukhoinkwenkwe egama linguMagozwe.Wayengoyena umncinane kubo bonke. Abazali bakaMagozwe baswelekaeneminyaka emihlanu kuphela. Wayakuhlala nomalume wakhe. Le ndodayayingayikhathalelanga le nkwenkwana.Wayengamniki nditsho nokutyaokwaneleyo. Wayemsebenzisaokwekhoboka. Umalume kaMagozwe wayembetha xaekhalaza okanye ebuza imibuzo. XauMagozwe ebuza ukuba angaya naesikolweni, umalume wakhewayembetha athi, “Usisidengeesingenakufunda nto.”Emva kweminyaka emithathuyalempatho uMagozwe wabalekawamshiya umalume wakhe. Wayakuhlala esitalatweni. Babunzima ubomi basesitalatwenikwaye la makhwenkwe etsala nzimaimihla ngemihla ukufumana ukutya.Maxa wambi babebanjwa, maxa wambibebethwa. Xa begula kwakungekho mntuwokubanceda.Babexhomekeke kwimalanaababeyifumana ngokungqiba, bethengisaneeplastiki nenkukuma ephindaisetyenziswe kwakhona.Ubomi babubanzima kakhulu ngenxayemilo namanye amaqela awayefunaukulawula iingingqi ezithilekulodolophukazi. Ngenye imini uMagozwe wathiekhangela emigqomeni wafumanaincwadi endala yamabali. Wayivuthululawayifaka kwingxowana yakhe.Wayeyikhupha mihla le abukeleimifanekiso ekuloo ncwadi.Wayengakwazi ukufunda amagama. Le mifanekiso yayibalisangenkwenkwana eyakhula yabangumqhubi weenqwelo-moya.UMagozwe wayephupha ngokubangumqhubi weenqwelo-moya. Maxawambi wayezibona eyile nkwenkwanaikweli bali. Kwakubanda uMagozwe emi ecalenikwendlela engqiba. Kweza indoda kuye.“Molo, ndinguThomas. Ndisebenzakufutshane apha, kwindawoonokufumana kuyo into etyiwayo,” yatshoindoda.Yakhomba kumzi otyheli onophahlaolubhlowu. “Ndiyathemba ukuba uyakuyaphaya uyokufumana ukutya?” yabuza.UMagozwe wajonga kule ndoda,wajonga kulo mzi. “Mhlawumbi,” watshowaze wahamba. Kwiinyanga ezilandelayo la makhwenkweangenamakhaya aqhelana nokubonauThomas. Wayekuthanda ukuthethanabantu, ingakumbi abantu abahlalaesitalatweni.UThomas wayephulaphula amabaliangobomi babantu. Wayeqinisekilekwaye enomonde kwaye engakheabekrwada okanye angabina ntlonipho.Amanye amakhwenkwe aqalisa ukuyakulendlu ityheli nabhlowu ukuyakufumana isidlo sasemini. UMagozwe wayehleli kwipavumenteebuka incwadi yakhe yemifanekisokwaze kwafika uThomas wahlala ecalenikwakhe.“Ingaba lingantoni eli bali?” wabuzauThomas.“Lithetha ngenkwenkwana eyabangumqhubi weenqwelo-moya,”waphendula uMagozwe.“Ngubani igama lalenkwenkwana?”wabuza uThomas.“Andilazi, andikwazi ukufunda,” watshouMagozwe ethethela phantsi. Ukudibana kwabo, uMagozwe waxelelauThomas ngebali lakhe. Wamxelelangomalume wakhe nesizathu sokubaabaleke.UThomas wayengathethi kakhulu, kwayewayengamxeleli uMagozwe kuba enzentoni na, kodwa wayephulaphulangononophelo.Maxa wambi babencokola ngeli lixabesitya kwindlu enophahla olubhlowu. Kufutshane nomhla wokuzalwa kaMagozwe egqiba iminyaka elishumi,uThomas wamnika incwadi yamabali entsha. Yayithetha ngenkwenkwanaeyakhulela ezilalini eyakhula yaba ngumdlali webhola odumileyo.UThomas wamfundela le ncwadi uMagozwe amaxa amaninzi waza wathingenye imini, “Ndicinga ukuba kufuneka uye esikolweni ukwazi ukufunda.Ucinga ntoni wena?”UThomas wathi kukho indawo ayaziyo apho abantwana bavunyelwa ukubabahlale baye nasesikolweni. UMagozwe wacinga ngalendawo intshanangokuya esikolweni. Mhlawumbiumalume wakhe wayelungile xa esithiusisidenge esinganakho ukufunda nto?Angathini xa benokumbetha kulendawointsha. Wayesoyika.“Mhlawumbi kungcono ahlaleesitalatweni,” wacinga ngolo hlobo. Waxelela uThomas ngoloyiko lwakhe.Ekuhambeni kwexesha le ndodayamthembisa ukuba ubomi bunokubangcono kulendawo intsha. Ngoko ke uMagozwe wafumana igumbilokuhlala kumzi onophahla oluluhlazanamanye amakhwenkwe amabini.Babelishumi bebonke abantwanaababehlala kweli khaya. KwakukhonoMama uCissy nomyeni wakhe, izinjaezintathu, ikati kunye nebhokhwe endala. UMagozwe waqala isikolo kwayekwakunzima. Wayesemva ngomsebenziomninzi kakhulu.Maxa wambi wayefuna ukunikezela.Kodwa wayecinga ngomqhubiweenqwelo-ntaka kunye nomdlaliwebhola awayefunda ngabo kwiincwadizakhe zamabali. Wayenganikezeli efananabo. UMagozwe wayehleli eyadini kwindluenophahla oluluhlaza efunda incwadiyamabali yasesikolweni. UThomas wezakuhlala ecaleni kwakhe.“Lingantoni eli bali?” wabuza uThomas.“Limalunga nenkwenkwana eyabanguTitshala,” waphendula uMagozwe.“Ngubani igama lalenkwenkwana?”wabuza uThomas.“Igama layo nguMagozwe,” waphendulaenoncumo uMagozwe. Edolobheni elinyamfukayo iNairobi, kudele nempilo yekhaya enokunakekela,kwakuhlala iqembu labafanaabangenamakhaya. Kubona usukulwalufana nolunye.Ekuseni ngelinye ilanga abafanababeqoqa amacansi abo kade beleleonqenqemeni olubandayo lomgwaqo.Babasa umlilo ngemfucuza ukuzebaxoshe amakhaza. Phakathi kwaleliqembu kwakunomncane kubo bonkeuMagozwe. Wayeneminyaka emihlanu kuphela,khathi abazali bakhe beshona.Wayakohlala nomalume wakhe. Indoda leayizange iyinakelele ingane.Wayemncisha ukudla. Wayemenzisaumsebenzi omningi olukhuni. Uma ngabe uMagozwe ekhononda nomaefuna incazelo, umalume wakhewayemshaya. Uma uMagozwe ebuzaukuthi angaya yini esikoleni, umalumewayemshaya athi, “Uyisiduphungakakhulu ukuthi kukhona ongakufunda.”Emva kweminyaka emithathuyokuphatheka kabi, uMagozwe wabalekakwamalume wakhe. Waqala ukuhlalaezitaladini. Kwakunzima ukuhlala ezitaladini kantiabafana babezabalaza nsukuzonkeukuthola ngisho ukudla. Kokunyebabeboshwa, bashaywe.Kwakungenamuntu wokubanakekelauma begula.Leli qembu lalisimamiswa imadlanaelaliyithola uma liyicela kwabedlulayo,noma uma lithengisa ocwazi nokunyeokungabuye kusebenziseke.Impilo yayibanzima kakhulu ngenxayezimpi namanye amaqembu abangayoayefuna ukuphatha izindawo ezithileedolobheni. Ngelinye ilanga uMagozwe ecingaemgqonyeni kadoti,wathola incwadiendala negugile. Wayithintitha eyisusaukungcola waseyifaka esikhwamenisakhe.Nsukuzonke emva kwalokhuwayeyikhipha incwadi abuke izithombe.Wayengakakwazi ukufunda amagama. Izithombe zazixoxa indaba yomfanaowakhula waba umqhubi wezindiza.UMagozwe wayehlala ephupha ngokubaumqhubi wezindiza. Kokunye,wayezibona eyilo mfana okuxoxwa ngayeendabeni. Kwakumakhaza uMagozwe emiemgwaqeni ecela imali.Kwafika indodaeyathi kuye, “Sawubona, nginguThomas.Ngisebenza eduze kwalapha, endaweniongathola khona ukudla,”Yakhomba indlu ephuzi enophahlaoluluhlaza okwesibhakabhaka.“Ngethemba uzoya khona uzotholaukudla?” kubuza indoda.UMagozwe wayibuka indoda, wabukanendlu wasethi, “Mhlawumbe.” Wasukawahamba. Ezinyangeni eziningi ezilandelayo,abafana abangenamakhaya bazebajwayela ukubona uThomas endaweni.Wayethanda ukukhuluma nabantu,ikakhulu abahlala ezitaladini.UThomas wayelalela izindabangezimpilo zabantu. Wayezimiselaenesineke futhi, wayengakaze abeluhlazafuthi engenayo indelelo.Abanye abafana baqala ukuya endliniephuzi nokuluhlaza beyothola ukudlaemini. UMagozwe wayehlezi onqenqemenilomgwaqo ebuka izithombe encwadiniyakhe lapho uThomas efika ehlala eduzekwakhe.“Imayelana nani le ndaba?” kubuzauThomas“Imayelana nomfana obangumqhubiwezindiza,” kuphendula uMagozwe.“Ubani igama lomfana?” kubuzauThomas.“Angazi, angikwazi ukufunda,” kushouMagozwe kancane. Kwathi lapho behlangana futhiuMagozwe waqala ukuxoxela uThomasindaba yakhe. Kwakuyindaba kamalumewakhe nesizathu sokubaleka kwakhe.UThomas kazange akhulume kakhulufuthi kazange atshele uMagozwe ukuthiakenzenjani, wayegcina ngokulalelangokucophelela.Kokunye babexoxa lapho bedla endlinienophahla oluluhalzaokwesibhakabhaka. UMagozwe esezohlanganisa iminyakaeyishumi, uThomas wamupha enyeincwadi. Kwakuyindaba yomfanawasedolobheni elincane owakhula wabaumdlali webhola odumile.UThomas wafundela uMagozwe lendaba izikhathi eziningi, kwaze kwathingelinye ilanga wathi, “Ngibona ukuthisekuyisikhathi sokuthi uye esikoleniufunde ukuzifundela. Ubona kanjani?”UThomas wachaza ukuthi kukhonaindawo ayaziyo lapho izingane zingahalakhona, futhi zifunde. UMagozwe wacabanga ngale ndawoentsha, nangokuya esikoleni. Kunganjaniuma ngabe umalume wakhe wayeqinisilelapho ethi uyisiduphunga engeke sifundelutho?Kwakuyothiwani uma eshaywa lapho?Wayesaba. “Mhlawumbe kungconongiqhubeke nokuhlala esitaladini,”ecabanga. Wacobelela uThomas ngovalo analo.Kaningi emmisa isibindi ukuthi impiloyakhe ingabangcono. Kanjalo uMagozwe wathuthelaekameleni endlini eyayinophahlaoluluhlaza njengotshani. Wayehlalanabanye abafana babili.Sebebonke ababehlala endlinikwakuyizingane eiyishumi. Kanye noAntiCissy, nomyeni wakhe, izinja ezintathu,ikati nembuzi endala. UMagozwe wasiqala isikolekwabalukhuni. Kwakukuningiokwakufanele akwazi ukuze aficanenabanye.Kwakukekuthi akayeke. Kodwawayecabanga ngomqhubi wendizanomdlali webhola ezincwadini zakhe. UMagozwe wayehleli egcekeni lendlueyayinophahla oluluhlaza, efundaincwadi yezindaba yesikole. UThomaswafika wahlala eduze kwakhe.“Imayelana nani le ndaba?” kubuzauThomas.“Imayelana nomfana owaba uthisha,”kuphendula uMagozwe.“Ubani igama lakhe?” kubuza uThomas“Igama lakhe uMagozwe,” kushouMagozwe emamatheka.

Kutheni ubhabha elilanje? Ndicinga ukubaulambile. Kutheni inkwenkweiqumbile? Ndicinga ikhumbulautata wayo. Kutheni intombazanayonwabile nje? Unelokhwe entle. Kutheni indoda endalaihleka nje? Ifunde isiqhuloesilungileyo. Kutheni inenekazilincumile nje? Abantwana balobafunda ngokuthecwaka. Liva ntoni eli nenekazi? Ndicinga ukuba uzivaenentloni.

UMinti uyakuthanda ukudlalanamabhabhathane… …kwakunye neentaka. Uyakuthanda kantinokwenzaamapomakazi ngesanti. Uyakuthanda kantinokwenzaamapomakazi ngesanti. Xa uMinti ebuyelaekhaya, umama wakheumcela ukuba acoceikhaya lakhe. Kodwauyala. Ndiyazicaphukelaiisepha!” ukhwazaatsho. Kwathi ngabusukubuthile uMintiwafumana iphupha.Ipomakazi lakhe lesantilaligcweleiintsholongwane, ezinyezazimhlasela. Nanko uMinti eleqwaziintsholongwane.Akazange abalekeleobu bomi! Wakhalaekhwaza,“Nceda…Nceda!” Ngephanyazo, KwavelauGwebu inkosiyeesepha. “Minti musaukoyika,” watshouGwebu.“Hlaselani ezintsholongwane!”watsho uGwebu inkosiyeesepha eyalelaumkhosi wakhewogwebu. Yeka oko umkhosiwogwebu ukuleqa ezontsholongwane! Nanamhla uMintiuyakuthandaukusebenzisa isepha.Uyazihlamba azigutyuleukuze acoceke.

Kwakukho ibhasi enye jwi elalilini ka-Ebei. Yayinkulu kwaye izuba ngombala. Yayingxola kakhulu. Ngenye imini umama ka-Ebei wathi, "Kusasa ngomso sizokuya edolophini siyokuthenga iyunifomu yakho." U-Ebei wavuya kakhulu. Babeza kuhamba ngebhasi enkulu ezuba ngombala. Wayengakwazi ukulala ebusuku luvuyo. Wayesele enxibile ngelixa umama wakhe engena ezokumvusa. U-Ebei nomama wakhe baya esitophini sebhasi. Balinda ibhasi enkulu embala uzuba. Kodwa ibhasi ayizange ifike. Abanye abantu bafika nabo esitophini. Babekhalaza kuba ibhasi yayingalibambanga ixesha layo. "Ingaba ibhasi isishiyile?" Babebuza. U-Ebei wakhathazeka. "Asizukwazi ukuya edolophini. Asizukwazi ukuyokuthenga iyunifomu yam," wacinga. Abanye abantu bajika babuyela emakhaya. Kodwa u-Ebei wayekhala engafuni ukuya ekhaya. Umama wakhe wamthuthuzela wathi, "Siza kuqhubeka silinde." Ngokukhawuleza beva ingxolo. Babona uthuli emoyeni. Yayisiza ibhasi! Kodwa ibhasi yayingekho zuba. Yayingekho nkulu. Le bhasi yayibomvu yaye incinane. Abantu ababelindile bayijonga nje ibhasi. Abazange bakhwele. "Ngenani! Ngenani!" wakhwaza umqhubi Waphinda wathi, "Sishiywe lixesha namhlanje. U-Ebei nomama wakhe bangena kuqala. Ngomzuzwana wonke umntu wangena ebhasini ebomvu encinane. U-Ebei wajonga phandle ngefestile. Wabona abanye abantu abaninzi esitophini. Abanye abantu abaninzi babebaleka beleqa ukukhwela ibhasi. Kodwa babesele beshiywe lixesha. Ibhasi yayisele igcwele. Ibhasi ebomvu yahamba yaya edolophini. "Iphi ibhasi enkulu ezuba ngombala?" Kwabuza umama ka-Ebei. "Yonakele," waphendula umqhubi. "Siyayilungisa, iza kuba khona ngomso," watsho umqhubi. U-Ebei wayengenaxesha lombala webhasi. Wayengenaxesha lobukhulu bebhasi. Wayevuyiswa kukuba wayesiya edolophini.

Igama lam nguSimilo. Ndinabahlobo abane. Amagama abonguZuko, uLizo, uViwenoSiyanda. Umhlobo wam uZukouthanda ibhola. Umhlobo wam uLizouthanda ukudada. Umhlobo wam uViweuthanda undize. Umhlobo wam uSiyandauthanda ukufunda. Mna, ndithanda konkeabakuthandayo. Ndidlala ibhola noZuko. Ndidada edamininoLizo. Ndidlala undize noViwe. Yiza mhlobo.Wena, uthandani? Yiza, uzodlala ibholanathi. Yiza, uzodada nathi. Yiza, uzodlala undizenathi. Yiza, uzofunda nathi!

Kudala-dala, icilikishenesele babengabahlobo. Isele lalinomonabubuhle nenkazimloyecilikishe. "Wenze njani ukuzeubemhle? Jonga mna,ndimbi. Ndenze njaningolwam ulusu?" latshoisele. Lathi icilikishe,"Mamela, galela amanziembizeni uyibekeemlilweni. Ecalenikwakho . . . ." Kodwa isele lathi,"Sendiyazi, ndiyayazi.Thula, mhlobo wam."Lahamba. Lafika ekhaya lagalelaamanzi embizeni. Athe xa amanzi eqalaukubila, lazijula kuwo. Ze latsha ulusu lakhe,laqhawukelwanangumsila. Endaweni yokubaliqhakazele libelihle njengecilikishe, laba libinangakumbi!

Ilanga laligqats' ubhobhoyi kwihlathi elomileyo. Kwakusele kuziintsuku ezininzi imbovane encinane ingawaseli amanzi. "Ndidinga ithontsi lamanzi nokuba liwa egqabini." Kodwa nombethe wawusele womile. "Ukuba andiseli manzi ngoku, ndiza kufa," yatsho imbovane encinane inyembezana. "Kufuneka ndiye kula mlambo bendive ngawo." "Umlambo uza kumka nawe," watsho unomatse okrelekrele eyilumkisa. Kodwa yayomile lunxano imbovane encinane. "Ndiza kufa ukuba andiseli manzi ngoku." Imbovane encinane yahamba isiya kukhangela loo mlambo. Yahamba yahamba idlula kwingca eyomileyo nakumahlahla awomileyo. Yahamba yade yeva ukugwinkciza kwamanzi omlambo. Imbovane encinane yathatha ithamo lamanzi ixesha elide. Ngendlela eyayivuya ngayo ayizange ilibone iliza elikhulu lamanzi elalisiza. Imbovane yazama ukubambelela emcingeni owomileyo wengca owawudlula ngakuyo. Kodwa yemka namanzi. "Ndincedeni bantu. Khanindincede." "Khawuleza, bambelela apha," latsho ihobe elimhlophe liphethe ikhuni ngomlomo.  "Andinakuhamba ndingekalibuleli ihobe. Ndiza kulinda lide lize kusela amanzi." Ngenye imini isalindile njalo, kwafika amakhwenkwe amabini emlanjeni ephethe iiketi zawo. "Kukho ihobe elikhulu elimhlophe elidla ngokuza kusela amanzi apha," yatsho enye inkwenkwe. "Siza kutya lona ngale ngokuhlwa."  "Andinakuwavumela la makhwenkwe alibulale eli hobe limhlophe. Kodwa njengokuba ndimncinane kangaka nje, ndingenza ntoni?" Kanye ngelo xesha ihobe elimhlophe labhabha lisuka emthini lisiya kusela.  Imbovane encinane yavela necebo. Yatsibela unyawo lwenye yala makhwenkwe, yaza yalithi nkxii kanobom. Le nkwenkwe yaxhuma. "Yhoo!" yakhwaza isitsho. Ihobe elimhlophe lothuka laza labhabha lisiya kwindawo ekhuselekileyo. Yaba ke ngolo hlobo imbovane encinane ibulela ihobe elimhlophe ngokuyihlangula.

Ngenye imini mnanodade wethusasihamba ecalenikwendlela. Ilori enkulu yayisihlaendulwini. Imoto yayinyuka iqhinangesantya esiphezulu. Umqhubi wayethethakwimfono-mfono yakhe.Wayengajongangaendleleni. Ilori yantlithekaemotweni. Inqwelo yezigulanenamapolisa zezakunceda. Iilori ezinkulu zafika.Enye yathatha ilori leintlithekileyo.Enye yathatha imoto. Sabona yonke intokwaye sasothukile.

Kudala-dala, izilwanyana zazingenayo imilenze. Zazirhubuluza emhlabeni. Yayingabantu kuphela ababenemilenze ngoba uMaguru wayebaphe yona. Ngenye imini uMaguru wagqiba ekubeni aphe zonke izilwanyana imilenze. Wazula ilali yonke ekhwaza ngombhobho. Wayefuna isilwanyana ngasinye sikwazi ukuhamba njengomntu. Zavuya izilwanyana zakuva ukuba ziza kuphiwa imilenze. Isilwanyana ngasinye sasifuna imilenze ukuze sikwazi ukuhamba nokubaleka. Zacula, zatshikizisa imisila, zabhakuzisa neempiko zazo. Zahlangana izilwanyana zaxoxa ngobunzima bokurhubuluza ngesisu xa zihamba. Umhlaba wawuzikrwempa izisu zazo. Imilenze yayiza kuzinceda ukuba zikwazi ukuma zibone kude, njengabantu. Lwathi xa lufika usuku lwemilenze yamahala, izilwanyana ezininzi zarhubuluza zaya emzini kaMaguru ukuyokwamkela imilenze yazo. Iindlulamithi, iingonyama, iindlovu, imivundla, iingwenya, neentaka zema emgceni zilinde ukuphiwa imilenze. Isilwanyana ngasinye safumana imilenze emine, zaze zona iintaka zafumana imilenze emibini inye. Zabonakala zinomahluko izilwanyana ngelixa sele zinemilenze. Ezinye zagida luvuyo. Ezinye zazibhadazela ziphinde ziwe zisenziwa bubunzima bokuhamba ngeenyawo. Zahamba-hamba elalini zibonisa abantu imilenze yazo. Zonke izilwanyana zathi, "Soze siphinde sirhubuluze." Isilwanyana sokugqibela ukufumana imilenze yayinguSongololo. UMaguru wabuza, "Ukhona olandela emva kwakho?" "Hayi, ndingowokugqibela," waphendula uSongololo. UMaguru wacinga, "Kulungile ke, xa kungasekho mntu, ndiza kuyenzani yonke le milenze eshiyekileyo?" UMaguru wanika uSongololo yonke imilenze eshiyekileyo. USongololo wahamba evuya kakhulu ngoba wayefumene imilenze emininzi. "Ndiza kuhamba ngokukhawuleza ke ngoku kunazo zonke izilwanyana," wacinga njalo. Mzuzwana nje emkile uSongololo, kwafika uNyoka emzini kaMaguru. "Maguru, ndicela undiphe imilenze," wacenga uNyoka. "Sendiphise ngayo yonke imilenze. Wena ubuphi kanti?" wabuza uMaguru. "Ndiselwe," waphendula uNyoka. UMaguru wakhangela endlwini yakhe ejonga ukuba yayingekho na eseleyo. Kodwa akazange afumane nomnye. UMaguru waphuma wathi, "Ndiyaxolisa Nyoka, akukho milenze ishiyekileyo." UNyoka warhubuluza wabuyela ekhaya engenayo imilenze. Ukusukela loo mini uNyoka akalali kakhulu. Usoloko elindele usuku apho naye aza kufumana ngalo imilenze.

UTom uphethe ingobozi yeebhanana ezivuthiweyo. UTom uya emarikeni uyothengisa iibhanana. Abantu abasemarikeni bathenga iziqhamo. Kodwa akukho mntu ozithengayo iibhanana zikaTom.Bakhetha ukuthenga iziqhamo ebafazini. “Ekuhlaleni, ngabafazi bodwa abathengisa iziqhamo,” batsho abantu. “Yindoda enjani na le?” bayabuza abantu. Kodwa uTom akancami.Uyakhwaza, “Thengani iibhanana zam! Thengani iibhanana zam ezinencasa ezivuthiweyo!” Omnye umfazi uthatha ipakethi yeebhanana engobozini. Ujonga iibhanana ngononophelo. Lo mfazi uthenga iibhanana. Abantu abaninzi beza esitendini. Bathenga iibhanana zikaTom bazitye. Msinyane,  ingobozi ayinanto. UTom ubala imali ayenzileyo. Aze uTom athenge isepha, iswekile, nesonka. Ufaka izinto engobozini yakhe. UTom ungcekelela ingobozi entlokweni yakhe agoduke.

Kudaladala, kwahlala indoda eyayinezinto ezininzi- ifama enkulu etyebileyo ineenkomoiigusha neebhokhwe. Kodwa, njengoko yayikhula isiba ndala, yakhulelwa kukungonwabi,kuba yayinye into eyayingekho. Yaye ingenankosikazi. Ime phantsi komthi ngenye imini,yaba nengcinga elungileyo. Ukubaayide iyifumane inkosikazi,mhlawumbi ingazenzela. Ngoko ke yathathisa ukusebenzaibumba umfazi omhle esebenielomeleleyo lomthi. Yakuqgibaukuwenza umfanekiso oqingqiweyoyambamba amehlo aze avuleka.Wavuthela kancinane kuye, waphila. Ngenene wayengoyena mfazi mhleeyakhe yambona. Yaguqa phambikwakhe, yamcela ukuba abeyinkosikazi yakhe. Yampha ifasikoti enemibalaemininzi, iintsimbi neringi yentloko,uphawu lomfazi otshatileyo. Kwayeyamakhela indlu yodaka nengcaeyayidla ngokulala emazanzi esiqusomthi. “Inye kuphela intoendiyicela kuwe,” yatshokunkosikazi yayo. “Ungaze uxelelenabani na apho uvela khona.” Kodwa, phambi kokuba kubekudala, amadoda amancinaneasuka kwilali ekufutshane baqalabathethana phakathi kwabo.“Kwenzeka njani na ukuba indodaendala ngolu hlobo ibe neyonankosikazi intle?” Ngoko ke baqgibakwelokuba bayibe ukuze bayithathebayise kubuhlanti babo. Indoda endala yayinentliziyoekhathazekileyo. Yaziva ingenakhoukuphila ngaphandle kwakhe.Kodwa ke yacinga, “Mhlawumbiukuba ndinento yakhe,andinakuziva ndilusizi?” Ngoko keyathumela amahobe ayo ukubaamfumane, amculele nizise intoyakhe kuye. Bakumfumana, bamculele ngolwimilweentaka:Nkosikazi yomthi, nkosikazi yomthi,Umhle ngaphezu kwakhe nabani naUmyeni wakho usithumile ukubasize nefasikoti yakho! Wabanika ifaskoti yakhe, baze babhabha phezu kwentaba, phezu komlambo, emva kumyeniwakhe. Wayibamba ifasikoti ebusweni bakhe, wakhe wathuthuzeleka okwethutyanaelincinane. Kodwa ukumkhumbula zangekuphela. Waza kwakhonawathumela amahobe akhe ukubaamculele: Nkosikazi yomthi,nkosikazi yomthi, umhle ngaphezukwakhe nabanina. Umyeni wakhousithumile ukuba sizise iringi yakhoyentloko!Baza baphinda babhabha neringiyentloko, uphawu lomfaziotshatileyo. Yayibamba iringi yentloko,yaphefumlela inkosikazi yayokakhulu, ekude ebuhlanti babanyeabantu.Emva kwethutyana yabiza amahobeakhe kwakhona.Yiyani kuye nicule,Nkosikazi yomthi, nkosikazi yomthi,Umhle kakhulu kunaye nabaninaUmyeni wakho usithumiee ukubasibuyisa ubomi bakho kwakhona! Ngoko ke, bahamba ithubalesithathu.Bathi ngcu emagxeni akhe,njengoko becula, intaka nganyeyanqola iliso. Ngokukhawulezayajika kwakhona yabangumfanekiso oqinqgiweyo. Iinyawozakhe neengalo zawa phaya.Kwalandela intloko yakhe.Yaza yawa emhlabeni. Umyeni wakhe wasisongangokucotha isiqu sakhe seplangaemlanjeni.Wammisa nengcambu zakheemanzini.Esondliwa lilanga nomhlaba. wamilaamaqgabi kwakhona. Xa umoya uvuthuza amaqgabiaphefumula phezulu.Njengokuba umfazi esenza xaekhumbula umyeni wakhe.

Ndidanisa xandonwabile,Ndidanisa xandibuhlungu,Ndidanisa xandindedwa,Ndidanisa xandicaphukile. Utitshalakazi wam uthi,“Hlala phantsi uzole!Sukudanisa iminiyonke.” Kodwa umama wamyena uthi,“Ukudanisa kwenza ubesempilweni,Ukudanisa kwenza ubemde,Ngenye imini uza kubangumdanisi,Kwaye uzakubamangalisa bonke!” Kwaye mna ndithi,“Ngenye imini ndizakudanisa kwaye abantubaza kubhatalaxa befuna ukundibonanditsiba-tsibakwaye ndizibhija-bhija”...‘Udanisa kakuhleKAKHULU', bazakutsho.”

Sonke siyayazi into yokuba indlovu inomboko omde. Kodwa kudala umboko wendlovu wawumfutshane kakhulu futhi utyebile okwesihlangu esibekwe ebusweni bayo. Wawuyimpumlo nje eqhelekileyo. Ngenye imini kwazalwa ithole lendlovu. Lalinomdla ngayo yonke into. Lalisoloko linombuzo kwisilwanyana ngasinye. Lalilangazelela ukwazi ngendlulamthi. "Kutheni unomqala omde?" labuza kwindlulamthi. Lalilangazelela ukwazi ngomkhombe. "Kutheni uneempondo ezitsolo?" Labuza kumkhombe. Lalilangazelela ukwazi ngemvubu. "Kutheni unamehlo abomvu nje?" Labuza kwimvubu. Kanti lalilangazelela KAKHULU ukwazi ngengwenya. ''Ingwenya itya ntoni ngesidlo sangokuhlwa?'' "Ungakulinge uphinde ubuze umbuzo onjalo!" watsho umama walo. Waze wahamba engatyhilekanga. Kodwa ngokukhawuleza kwafika uNomyayi owayekrelekrele wathi, "Ndilandele siye emlanjeni. Apho uza kutsho ubone ukuba ingwenya itya ntoni ngesopholo." Ngenene ithole lendlovu lalandela unomyayi ukuya emlanjeni. Lazinyanzela ezingcongolweni laze lema enyeleni yomlambo. Lajonga emanzini. Yayiphi ingwenya? "Molo," kwatsho ilitye elalingakwinyele yomlambo. "Ewe," laphendula ithole lendlovu. "Ungandichazela ukuba ingwenya itya ntoni ngesopholo?" "Goba uze ezantsi ndizokukuxelela," laphendula ilitye. "Yehla, yehla, kwakhona." Ngenene ithole lendlovu lagoba, lehla, laphinda lehla laze. "Xhakamfu!" Impumlo yethole lendlovu yabe sele isezindlathini zengwenya. "Ingwenya iza kutya wena ngesopholo!" Wakhala watsho unomyayi. Ithole lendlovu laxhathisa ngemilenze yalo yangemva eqinileyo, latsala, latsala, latsala. Kodwa ingwenya ayatsho ukuliyeka. Impumlo yethole lendlovu yanwebeka, yanwebeka, yanwebeka laze. "Dudlu!" lawa labetheka ngomqolo. Ngokudikwa kukuphuncukwa sisidlo, ingwenya yatshona phantsi kwamazi. Ithole lendlovu lajonga impumlo yalo. Kodwa lalingakwazi ukubona apho yayiphela khona! Impumlo yalo yayinde kangangokuba yayinokukwazi ukukha iziqhamo emasebeni aphezulu emithi. Impumlo yalo yayinde kangangokuba yayinokukwazi nokuhlamba umqolo walo ngamanzi. Ukusukela ngaloo mini, zonke iindlovu zaba nemiboko emide eluncedo.

Isikhuni esikhulu esimdaka ngebala. Ingonyama emdaka efakwe umbala. Isonka esimdakaesithambileyo. Iikeyiki ezimdakangebala ezimnandi. Iibhutsi ezindalaezimbala umdaka. Inyathi embala umdakaebengezelayo. Umnqwazi wewuluomdaka ngebala. Inja emdaka ngebala egudileyo. Udaka olumdakangebala olungcolileyo. Ufele olumdaka ngebalaolumanzi. Yintoni ke ngoku le? Ubuso obucocekileyo esipilini esimdaka!

"Mama, jonga zonke ezi mpahla zincinci. Ndize kunxibantoni?" watsho uThandi."Linganisa ndibone, Thandi," watsho umama. "Jonga lo mbhinqo, uyandiqinisa," atsho uThandi elinganisa."Unyanisile mncinci. Wunike uVuyiswa," atsho umama. "Jonga nje le bhulukhwe, ayingeni," atsho uThandielinganisa."Unyanisile incinci. Yinike uVuyiswa," atsho umama. "Jonga mama le hempe, nayo incinci," atsho uThandielinganisa."unyanisile nayo incinci. Yinike uVuyiswa," atsho umama. "Jonga le jezi, mama, nayo incinci," atsho uThandi elinganisa."unyanisile incinci. Yinike uVuyiswa nayo," atsho umama. "Jonga idyasi yam yemvula incinci," atsho uThandielinganisa."Unyanisile nayo incinci. Yinike uVuyiswa," atsho umama. "Jonga ezi kawusi zincinci," atsho uThandi ekhalaza."Unyanisile zincinci. Zinike uVuyiswa nazo," atsho umamaemthuthuzela. "Jonga ezi zihlangu. Shu, ziyanditya!" atsho uThandi."Unyanisile nazo zincinci. Zinike uVuyiswa," atsho umama. "Unempahla ezininzi ngoku, Vuyiswa! Thatha zonke," watshouThandi. "Kodwa zinkulu zonke nje ezi mpahla!" watshouVuyiswa.

Yayiyeyona mvakwemini eshushu kakhulu ngoMgqibelo kuDisemba. Wonke umntu wayequmbile. "Bontle noMpho noLerato phumani phandle niyokudlala!" Umama watsho kuthi. "Andinifuni endleleni yam." Sabaleka saphuma endlwini. "Masiyeni emlanjeni," watsho uLerato. "Kupholile phaya." "Kodwa utata wasixelela ukuba singaqubhi emlanjeni," watsho uBontle. "Asiz'ukuqubha," waphendula uLerato. "Siza kudlala nje emthunzini ecaleni kwamanzi." Kodwa ukudlala 'ulibeke' ngumsebenzi obilisayo, nokuba uphantsi kwemithi ecaleni komlambo. Okokuqala sakhulula izihlangu zethu. Kodwa sasiseshushu. Saza sakhulula iziketi neeblawuzi. Kodwa sasiseshushu. Safaka iinyawo zethu emlanjeni ukuzipholisa. Saza satshizana, ngokukhawuleza saba manzi tixi ngamanzi. "O-o! Yizani! Masiqubheni," watsho uMpho. "Utata akasoze ayazi." Saqubha, saqubha, salibala ngexesha. Ilanga laqalisa ukuya ezantsi, saziva sigodola. Zaziphi iimpahla zethu? Sakhangela phantsi kwemithi. Sakhangela emahlahleni. Sakhangela kwindawo yonke. Kwakukho iimazi zeenkomo kufutshane nomlambo, zonwabele ingca enambithekayo. UBontle wajonga phezulu, "Jonga kulaa mazi yenkomo! Yintoni esemlonyeni yayo?" "Itya intyantyambo ebomvu," wakhwaza uMpho. "Yiblawuzi yakho!" Saza sajonga kwenye imazi yenkomo. Ihlafuna into eblowu. "Sisiketi sam!" watsho uBontle. Saya ekhaya ngeepenti zethu, siqhaqhazela. Kodwa ingasukuba kwakupholile. "Yayiziimazi zenkomo," Sakhala. "Iimazi zenkomo zitye impahla zethu." Kodwa umama ngaba wasikholelwa? Ngokukhawuleza imizimba yethu yaba shushu kakhulu. Kwaye obo bushushu babungaveli elangeni.

Kudala, kwakuhlalausapho olonwabileyo. Abazange balwe omnyenomnye. Babebancedaabazali babo ekhayanasemasimini. Kodwa babengavumelekanga ukubabasondele emlilweni. Kwakufuneka benzewonke umsebenzi waboebusuku.Kuba babenziwe ngekhandlela! kodwa omnyewamakhwenkwewayelangazelelaukuphuma phandleelangeni. Ngenye iminiulangazelelo lwakhulangamandla.Abantakwabobamlumkisa… k Ngenye iminiulangazelelo lwakhulangamandla.Abantakwabobamlumkisa… Abantwanabekhandlela baba lusizikakhulu ukubonauntakwabo enyibilikewaphela. Kodwa, benza icebo.Babumba igaqalekhalindlela labayintaka. Bathatha umntakwabooyintaka, bamsa phezukwentabaephakamileyo. Njengoko ilangaliphuma, wabhabhelakude evumakukukhanya kwakusasa.

Kutheni na le ntoisibhakabhakasiluhlaza? Asisoloko siluhlaza.Kunjalo? Kutheni amagqabieluhlaza nje? Akasoloko eluhlaza.Kunjalo? Kutheni na le ntoiibhanana zimthubi? libhanana ezivuthiweyoziluhlaza.Iibhananaezingavuthwanaziluhlaza. Kutheni na le ntoizambrelizimnyama? Zonke izambreliAzimnyamanga. Kutheni na le nto igazilibomvu? Kukho i-ayon egazini.Loo nto ilenza libebomvu. Kutheni na le nto ityuwaimhlophe? Andazi.

Ndililahlile iphini lamlokubetha ibhola,Kwaye andilifumani. Ndikhangele emvakocango.Belingekho phaya. Ndilikhangele ethaleni.Akhange ndilifumanephaya. Ndilikhangele phantsikwebhedi.Alikho nalapha. Ndiphengulule phakathietyesini/ebhokisini.Akukho nophawu lwalo. Ndiphengulule indawoephantsi kophahla.Andikhangendiyifumane naphi na. Ndikhangele apha,phaya, nakwindawozonke,Andiyifumananganaphina.

Igeja lalilifishane. Umnyango wakhewawumncane ehlulekaukungena endlini. Umbhede wakhewawumfishane. Ibhayisikili nalolilifshane. Lendoda yayiyinde bo! Wenza igeja elide. Wenza umnyangoomude. Wenza umbhedeomude. Wathenga ibhayisikilielide. Wahlala esihlalweniesiphezulu.Wadla ngemfologoende. Washiya umuzi wakhe,wayohlala endleiminyaka.

Nazi izilwane epulazini. Inkomo ikhala ithi, "Muu-u. Mu-u-u."Inkomo ifuna amanzi. Imbuzi ikhala ithi, "Mee-e. Me-e-e."Imbuzi ifuna amanzi. Ihashi likhala lithi, "Yihi-hi-hi. Yi-hi-hi-hi."Ihashi lifuna amanzi. Ingulube ikhala ithi,"Ho-ho-ho i-i-i."Ingulube ifuna amanzi. Isikhukhukazi sikhalasithi, "ke-ke-ke-ke-e-e,ke-ke."Isikhukhukazi sifunaamanzi. Inja ikhala ithi, "Hhawuhhawu-hhawu."Inja ifuna amanzi. Umlimi uphendula athi,"Shhh! Nawa amanzi."

Imbuzi, Inja neNkomo babengabangane abakhulu. Ngelinye ilanga bathatha uhambo ngetekisi. Sebefike ekugcineni nohambo lwabo, umshayeli wabe esecela ukuthi bakhokhe. Inkomo yakhokha eyayo. Inja yakhokha imali ethe ukwendlula, ngoba kade Ingenayo imali eyanele. Uma umshayeli esezilungisela ukunika Inja ushintshi wayo, Imbuzi yabaleka ngaphandle kokukhokha ngisho isenti. Umshayeli wayecasuke kakhulu. Washaya Wachitha ngaphandle kokunika Inja ushintshi wayo. Yingakho, Kuze kube namhlanje Inja igijimela ngaphambi kwemoto ilunguze ngaphakathi ukuze ithole umshayeli oyikweleta ushintshi wayo. Imbuzi iyabaleka uma izwa umsindo wemoto isaba ukuthi izoboshwa ukuthi ayizange ilukhokhele uhambo eyayiluthathe nabangani bayo. Inkomo ayinandaba mangabe kuza imoto. Inkomo ithatha isikhathi sayo uma iwela umgwaqo ngoba iyazi ukuthi yayikhokha yonke imali okwakufanele iyikhokhe.

Ngolunye usuku, u Anansiisicabucabu wavuna amadumbeengadini yakhe. Abemahle,emakhulu futhi, wase ewathosaemlilweni. Ngemva kokuwathosa,wahlala phansi elungela ukuwadla. Ngemva nje kokuluma kanye, uAnansi wezwa kukhonaongqongqozayo emnyango.“kungaba ubani lowo?”, kucabangau Anansi. Wavula umnyango.bekunguFudu, ebukeka ekhathelekakhulu. Wathi, “ Anansi, ngicelaungingenise. Ngihambe ibangaelide, ngakho ngikhathele futhingifile indlala. Ubengabuyeenzenjani u Anansi kunokuvulela uFudu? U Anansi ubenomhobholo, engafunuukupha noma ubani omunye ukudlakwakhe, ngakho weza necebo elibi.Uma u Fudu ehlala phansi etafuleniethi udla idumbe, u Anansiwamnqanda. Wathi “Fudu, izandlazakho zingcolile! Awukwazi ukudlangezandla ezingcolile. Hambauyozigeza.Izandla zika Fudu bezingcolengempela, ngakho wahamba wayaemfuleni eyozigeza. Ngesikhathi u Fudu esaye emfuleni,uAnansi wasala ephanga wonkeamadumbe, wawadla wawaqeda.UFudu wabuya asephele wonke.uFudu wabuka u Anansi.“Ngiyabonga ukungimemaesidlweni sakusihlwa. Zizweukhululekile ukungena endlini yaminoma nini lapho useduze, ukuzengizokwenza okufanayo kuwena.UFudu wase ephindela endliniyakhe. Sahamba isikhathi. U Anansiwacabanga ngesethembisoesasenziwe u Fudu sokumenzelaukudla kwakusihlwa. Ngakho wayakwa Fudu ngolunye usuku.U Anansi wafika endlini ka Fudungaphambi nje kwesidlo sakusihlwa,ilanga selishona ngasemfuleni. UFudu wayelele ngomhlane ethameleilanga ukuze afudumale, njengobakwenza zonke izimfudu. Lapho uFudu ebona u Anansi, wathi “Sawubona Anansi. Uzodlanami isidlo sakusihlwa?” waphendula ngokushesha uAnansi wathi“Yebo. Ngingakujabulela kakhulu lokho.” Ubesezizwa elambengempela. Wangena ekujuleni komfula uFuduukuze adeke itafula alungise konke.U Anansi ubelokhu elindilengaphandle kwamanzi.Washeshe wabuya u Fudu wathi “OhAnansi, sekulungile konke manje.Ngicela uze sizodla isidlo sakusihlwamanje. Wabuyela emanzini uFudu,waqala ukudla amahlamvu aluhlazaayewadekile. U Anansi wazama ukungenaekujuleni kwamanzi ukuze adleisidlo sakusihlwa no Fudu, kodwaizicabucabu azikwazi ukubhukudazingene ekujuleni kwamanzi.Wayelokhu ezama, kodwa ehlulekanje ukufinyelela lokuya kudla. Ekugcineni, u Anansi weza neceboebelizomusiza angene ekujulenikwamanzi. Wathatha amatshe,wawafaka ejazini lakhe ukuzeamnike isisindo ebese engenaekugcineni kwamanzi. Akeveehlakaniphile!Walibona itafula, ligcwele ukudlaokuconsisa amathe okwehlaesiphundu. Welula isandla u Anansi, ethiuthatha ukudla. Wamnqandangokushesha u Fudu, wathi “Anansi,ngeke udle ufake ijazi. Akusiyoindlela esenza izinto ngayo leyolapha.Waphendula u Anansi wathi“Uqinisile Fudu, bengicabanganinje? Walikhumula ijazi lakhe. Ngaphandle kwejazi lakhe, u Anansiwayengasakwazi ukuhlala ekujulenikwamanzi, wabuyela phezulu.Wadumala kakhulu u Anansiesebukele u Fudu edla konkeukudla.

Namhlanje angiyi esikoleni. Yiholide! Namhlanje angeke ngiwubuke umabonakude. Awukho ugesi. Ngizokwenzani? Namhlanje ngizolalela umzimba wami! Uyawuzwa umzimba wakho? Okokuqala kumele ngithule, ngithulisise.Ukuze ngilale umzimba wami. Yebo , manje ngiyawuzwa umoya wami. Donsa…khipha… donsa…khipha… Futhi ngingawenza umoya ube nomsindo… Sssssssssssssss! Futhi ngingawenza ube phansi Mmmmmmmm. Manje ngiyayizwa inhliziyo yami ishaya!Doodom, doodoom, dooodooom. Ngingayenza inhliziyo yami ishaye ngamandla futhi ngokushesha?Yebo ngingagxumagxuma kufikela kumashumi amabili. Awubheke inhliziyo yami isishaya ngamandla.Doodom, doodoom, dooodooom! Futhi uma ngibeka iminwe yami esihlakaleni, ngiyakuzwaukushaya kwegazi!Ngabe iminwe iyezwa? Futhi ngingazizwa ngihleka haha haha haha hahahha! Noma ngikhalaBoohoooohooooo! Noma ngishaya izandla tap tappa tapppaaaa. Phezu kwako konke ngiyasizwa isisu sami sikhalaguddduu gudddu … Sithi, "Ngiphe ukudla ,ngiphe ukudla." Ikhala lami liyalizwa iphunga ekhishini likamama?Ngabe ikhala liyezwa? Kumnandi ukulalela umzimba wami!Manje ngifuna ukuzwa imihlathi yami ihlafuna. Kumnandi ukulalela umzimba wami!Manje ngifuna ukuzwa imihlathi yami ihlafuna.

Umama ebeqeda ukupakishaizingubo zakhe esikhwameniesincane. Njengob ayewaphumangomnyango,yena engangafuthi wathi, "Sala kahlekwamanje.” "Uyaphi uMama?" ngambhekangalesosikhathi ngimbuza. Ngaqala ukukhala ngilangazeleukumlandela kodwa ubabawangiphakamiselaphezukwehlombe lakhe. Ubaba wathi, "Umama uyaesibhedlela ukuyotholaumntwana." Laphongizwa "umntwana"Ngayeka ukukhala ngambuka."Kungani yena ayothola inganeesibhedlela?" ngimbuza Ubaba wangihlalisa esihlalweniesincane wathi, "ngizokutshelaukuthi kungani eyotholaumntwana esibhedlela.” Ngamlalela engichazela nangaloko ngingazisiswangaukuthi kungani engatholi lomntwana ekhaya. Uma ecedaukungichazela, Ngambuza, “Uzongithanda na umanomntwana omunye. Ubaba wangizisa duzane, wathi,“Sizohlala sikuthanda.” "Ngingambalela incwadi umaele?” Ngabuza Ubaba Ngalobobusuku ,ngaqalaukubhalela umama incwadi. Ngaklebhule iphepha encwadiniyami yomsebenzi ngaqalaukubhala... "Mama, umama, ubaba uthi uyeukuyothola umntwana omuny... …Sicela usheshe ubuye ekhaya... ... Ngifuna ukuthi uletheintombazanyana, ngizokhonaukudlala nayo uma iseKhulile ... ... Ungakwazi uzakungenisaezimbili ukuze umuntu abengawami ... ...Ngikulindile lapha ngaphandlekwendlu yethu." Ngigoqe incwadi yami ukuzengikwazi ukuyinika ubabaukuthi ukuletha yona Mama.Uma ngivuka ekuseniobulandelayo,incwadiwayesehambile.

Ngenkathi ngineminyakaemihlanu, umalume wangiphaisipho esithokozisayo.Kwakungu mdlwaneonezinyanga ezintathu ubudala!Ngelanga umalume efikanomdlwane ngajabula kakhulu.Ngangazi ukuthisenginomngane. Emva kokuba ewubeka phansiumalume waphendukela kimiwathi, “Iliphi igama ongamuphalona?”Ngawubheka lomdlwane ngasengithi, “Khokho.”Umalume wangimangazawabuza wathi, “Kungani uthiuKhokho?”Ngaphendula ngathi “Yingobaufana nokhokho.” Ngambuza umalume ukuthi ngabe uKhokhouzalwa yedwa yini.Umalume waphendula wathi ukhona omunyeumdlwane ofana ncamashi noKhokho.Ngasuka ngahamba ngayobheka umfowabokaKhokho. Ngenkathi uKhokho ebonaumfowabo waye wajabulakakhulu.Bobabili bahlanganisaamakhanda kwangathibayakhuluma. Ngambuza umalume ukuthingingabagcina bobabili yiniuKhokho kanye nomfowabo.“Kulungile,” kusho umalume.“Kodwa kuzomeleubanakekele.”Njalo kusihlwa, ngangidlalanabo ngibuye ngiyobajimisa. Emva kwezinyanga ezimbalwauKhokho nomfowabo basebekhulile, beqinile futhibenempilo.Base bekhulile ukuthingingakwazi ukubanakekelangingedwa. Ngacela umalume ukubaaphindisele umfowabo Khokhoemuva.Kodwa uKhokho waphathekakabi ngesikhathi esesele yedwa.Kwase kungathi uyangibuzaukuthi, “Ukwenzelani lokhu?” Wayeka ukudlala.Kwesinye isikhathi wayenqabaukuhamba nami.Kwezinye izikhathi adlekancane.Ngase ngiphatheke kabi.Ngazibuza ukuthi, “Konjengingenza njani ukusizauKhokho?” Ngelinye ilanga umalume wasivakashela.Ngesikhathi ngizwa izwi lakhe ngaphuma ngokusheshaendlini.Ngingakamboni nje ngezwa izinja ezikhonkothayo. ….. Ngemuva kwekhishi, babedlalangenkulu intokozo uKhokhonomfowabo! Ngendlela engase ngijabulengayo, angazanga ukuthi ubaniokwakumele ngimamukelekuqala, phakathi kuka mfowaboKhokho no malume.Ngangazi ukuthi uKhokhousezobuyela esimweni sakhesakudala njengoba umfowaboesebuyile.Sase sizophinda sigijime futhi!

Ngihlala kakuma dolobhana ,indawoeshisayo kakhulu,eyomile , egcweleizihlahla ezinameva , nezimbuzingaphezu kwabantu. Ngisho indawoemakethe yethule, zimbalwa njeizitolo ezincane. Abantu abaningibasebenzisa amabhayisekilinjengezokuthutha. Ngolunye usuku ekuseni umama wangibizawathi“Etabo, namuhla uvula iminyaka eyisithupha ubudalasinesipho sakho"."Kwenzenjani? Kuyini?" Ngabuzangokulangazela."Kusasa sizo hamba ngebhasi emakethe Eldoret,”Waphendula: “Futhi sihamba nawe!Ngivakasha okokuqala kuleli dolobha! Ngangi jabulekangangokuthi Ngahluleka ukulala ngalobobusuku. Ngakusasa ngesikhathi sime laphokuma khoma ibhasi, ngemaphakathikukamama nomamncane wamingigcoke ibhokadi yami entshayombala luhlaza nesikipaesingumbal obomvu.Ngazizwa ngimcane kakhuluphakathi kuka mama wami omudefuthi emncane no anti wamiokhuluphele. Ibhasi laligcwele kakhulu,kwafuneka ngihlale phezulukwethanga likamama.Ngikhathelwe ukushisa nenjabulo,ngilele indle yonkhe angibonangalutho. Ilanga laliphuma uma sifika eEldoretemakethe.Emnyango kwakunomfazi owaye ngumuntuwesifazane odayisa izinhlamvu. Laphaya ekhonenikwakukhona amadoda amabili azilungiselelaukukhipa amazambane wabo amnandi.Laphaya kwenye ikhona kwakunowesifazaneomfishane ephethe Ihelicopter ecwebezelayongombala luhlaza.”Umama, umama, ubhekenihelicopter!" Kodwa wangidonsa. Phakathe kwemakethe, kwakukhona isibaya esikhulubathengisa izinhlobo ezahlukene zezithelo. Ezinyeangikaze ngazibona phambilini.“Yini lezi zithelo?” Ngibuza umama: “Leziamawolintshi, futhi lawa amaguava.Ngajika ngathi “lokhu?” Kuzozonke izithelo kwisibaya,Ngithande ama apula kakhulu.Ngangithanda isimo sawo nombala.Ngazibuza ukuthi anambithekakanjani besengakangeni.Ngajikela kumama ngathi“ungangithengela elilodwa?” Lapho nje wanginikela apula,ngayeka isandla sikamama ,ngathatha lesithelongezandlazombili , futhi kancanesingene inyama enamanzi .Ngangingakaze ngathanda isithelongendlela ingi thande lelo habhulakonke bengi khathazeke ngakokwaku lihabhula lami. Lapho ngi qeda leli-apula, ngabheka phezuluukukhuluma nomama. Kodwa wayengekho!Ngabheka sibuya khona. Kodwa yena no antibabengekho lapho.Ngabheka ngasekodla nagasencele .Kodwabebengekh ndawo ukubonakala. “Ubane umamawami” Ngibuza lezinkosikazi ezithengizaamazambane amnandi duzane. Azimbonanga.Ngacala ukukhala. Ngokuhamba kwesikhathi,owesifazane wangibambangesandla futhi kwangiyisaendaweni lapho kwakukhonanezinye izingane. Indoda enkhulungesilevu esikhulu yangibuza,“ungubani igama lahko, mfana?” “E- ta - bo," ngiphendulangehlengezela izinyembezi zami. Ngazibuza ukuthi izingane ezilaphonazo ziyazithengiswa emakethe na?Ngayeka ukukhala ngabheka ukubakukhona ozothenga lezingane.Maduzane kwafika unkisikaziezothatha ingane.“Ngizolandela name bangithathe”,ngicabanga “futhi ngeke ngiyeekhaya futhi” ngacala ukukhalafuthi. Lapho ngizwa khona lendodayesilevu esikhula ithi “Uphi uEtabo?” Ngakhala kakhulu.." Kodwa angifuni ukuhamba nawe!"ngathula . Ngayibalekela. Lapho umama no anti wamibezwaigama lami bajimela ekamelweni .“Etabo, Etabo!” Izwi engilijwayelelibiza.Kwakungumama wami. Njengoba ngisukumaukuyobambambelela kumama. Uanti wami wathi Etabo besikufunasifuna ukukunika isipho sakho.Esikhwameni esikhulu, wakhiphaihelicopter eqwebezelayo yombalablue “ngeyakho!” esho.

Kwakukhona ihlathi elimnyama.Kwakuyihlathi elikhulu elimnyama.Kunezihlahla eziningi nendledlana encane.Izilwane nezinyoni eziningi zihlala khona. Ngelinye ilanga, zonke izilwane zahlangana ndawonye, “ Uthi uzwile?”Kubuza uKhova, isikhova. “Yebo,” kusho uVovo, inyamazane enezimpondo ezimagatsha.“Ini?” Kubuza uKhalipha, unogwaja. Sinesikole esikehlathini,” kuphendula uMaqinase, inkawu.“Hmph?” kumangala uKhulu, indlovu. Hawu, kusho indlulamithi, “ Kuhle!” kukabalasa uMancane , umnenke, “Asisheshisani, sihambeni! UPholipholi, upholi wandiza. UMaqinase, inkawu yagxumagxuma isuka esihlahleni iya kwesinye.USbu, inhlwathi iphixilika ngokushesha.“Ngapha!” kumemeza uPholipholi. “Uyakwazi ukufunda?”“Ngicabanga ukuthi kubheke phansi,” kusho uMaqinase elenga egatsheni lesihlahla.“Hissssss.” kuqedela uSbu inhlwathi. “Akekho ongafunda.” Ngokushesha bonke abangane bahlanganyela ndawonye.UMudemude indlulamithi yabheka phezulu esihlahleni yathi, “Akukho muntu lapha.”UKhova wagcizelela wathi, “Akukho muntu.” UPholipholi wabacela ukubababhekisise.Ibhele uNgozi wathi, “Ngiyitholile indlu.” “Ngiwutholile ujingo,” kumemezela uMancane, umnenke.“Awani lamabholoksi?” kubuza uKhalipha unogwaja efuna ukwazi.“Yini lena?” kubuza uKhova.USbu inhlwathi yaphendula yathi, “Ngikholelwa ekutheni yipensela.” uMudemude kanye noPholipholi bathola indlu yokufundela.Babiza abanye, bathi “Bukani yini le!”Bonke bafika bephethe izikhwama zesikole.Baqala ukumemeza, “Thisha! Thisha! Uphi uthisha wethu?”Kwakungekho noyedwa owaziyo. Bezwa ukubhonga. Bezwa ukubhonga okukhulu. Bezwa ukubhonga okukhuluuuu.UMancane wayenexhala. UMudemude esaba.UPholipholi wacasha emva kwebhodi.USbu kanye no Maqinase babedikile. "Ubani lo?", kusukuma uMaqinase inkawu. Akekho owakhuluma.Bonke babuka uthisha bemehlisa bemenyusa ngesineke.Base bonke babhekana. Uthisha waphenduka wabhala ebhodini elimnyama.“Gxuma,” kusho uMaqinase.“Ndiza!” kusho uPholipholi.Gqi gqi gqi kubaleka uKhulu.“Baleka, baleka, baleka ngokushesha,” kumemeza uKhalipha.“Yo,” bonke bamemeza.Ngesikhathi uthisha ephenduka kwabe kungasekho muntu endlini yokufundela.

Emandulo izinyoni zaziphilazingenayo inkosi. Langa lithizezaba nomhlangano, laphozazihlaziya ukuthi ngubaniongaba inkosi ukuze nazo zibenomholi njenganabantu.Zazibuzana ukuthi pho ubaniongaba inkosi? "UKhozi uqinile unasonesakhiwo sobukhosi." Kushoenye inyoni. "Cha ngeke uKhoziakanaso isicoco. Futhi umaememeza akazwakali kahle.""Kuncono Intshe ngoba inkulu,uma ibhonga izwakala njengane bhubesi." Kusho enye inyoni."Cha ngeke akakakwaziukundiza, inkosi yezinyonikumele ikwazi ukundiza.” "Mina ngingaba inkosi," kushoUPikoko edlalisa isisila sakhe."Ngimuhle kabi""Kodwa uyaziqhenya," kushouSikhova. "Mina nginamehloamakhulu kunazo zonkeizinyoni. Ngingaba inkosi.” "Changeke ube yinkosi wenaSikhova angithi uyalala umasekusa!” Zonke izinyonizimphikisa. Zathi zisaqhubeka nenkulumo,enye yezinyoni yeza nombonowokuthi okuncono akundizwe.Lowo oyondizela phezulukakhulu nguye oyoba inkosiyezinyoni.Zavumela phezulu zonkeizinyoni, zabe sezindiza ziyaphezulu esibhakabhakeni. UHansi wandiza usuku olulodwanje wandizela phezu kwezintabaeziphakeme zakuleyo ndawo.Kanti uKhozi wandizela phezukwezintaba eziluhlaza izinsukuezimbili. Kodwa uLinqewandizela phezulu izinsukuezintathu engami, eqonde nqgoeduze kwelanga. Esandizela phezuluuLinqe,kwezawakala ememezaethi "Ngiphezulu ngiyinkosi! " Khona manjalo phezu kwakheweza izwi elincane , "Tink, tink,tink! Ngiphezulu ngiyinkosi.”Kwabe kuyinyoni encaneuNcede.Phela wayecashe ngaphansikwephikokazi likaLinqengesikhathi endizela phezuluesibhakabhakeni! "Ngeke usangehlula,” kushouLinqe esho endizela phezulufuthi. Wandiza wazewaphelelwa amandla. Waphindawamemeza wathi "NgiphezuluNgiyinkosi yenu.” Kodwa ngaphansi kwephikolakhe kwakusacashe uNcede.Waphuma uNcede, "Tink, tink!Tink, tink! Yimina inyoniencane, ngiyinkosi." KodwauLiqe wabe ekhathele ukubawayesangandizela phezulu. Wandizela phansi bandla kodwauNcede wayesacashe phansikwephiko lakhe. Ezinye izinyonizazimthukuthelele kabi uNcede.Zazimlindele ukuthi mayefikanje zizomcutha zonke izinsibanazakhe. Kodwa inyoni encane yakubonaukuthukuthela kwezinyoni.Ngokushesha yehla yangenaemgodini ongenaluthowenyoka. Izinyoni zathi kuSikhova,” WenaSkhova ngoba unamehloamakhulu, qapha uNcedeumbambe uma ephuma."Ngempela uSikhova wahlalaphambi komgodi waqapha. Kodwa emini ilangaselifudumele uSikhovawafikelwa ubuthongo walala.Inyoni encane uNcedewalunguza wabona uSikhovaelele, ngokushesha wanyenyawabaleka. USikhova waba namahloningakwenzile, ukudedelauNcede. Kusukela ngalelolangauSikhova waqala ukuzingelaebusuku,emini uyalala acasheleukubonwa ezinye izinyoni.

Kudala, umhlaba usemusha, azintaba ezinkuluzazimboza umhlaba njengengubo nezihlahla ezindezihlabe isibhakabhaka. Kulomhlaba, kwakunedamu elimnyama elithulilelibanda. Ngaphansi kwalelidamukwakunezinyoka ezimbili. Eyodwayayikhuluphele inomhlobisoogoqene, enye yayincane ilula. Kwathi ngelinye ilanga, kwaba nesivunguvunguesikhulu. Umbani washaya ngaphansi edamini.Amanzi ahlukana ngesikhashana. Izinyoka zabonaumhlaba ongaphezulu ugcwele imibala nezidalozezimphiko. Uma amanzi evala futhi, izinyokaazizange zakhohlwa lobuyabuhle obungakaezabubona. “Asingeke sikwazi ukuhlala kulobumnyama nokubanda kwalelidamu,” zakshelana izinyoka. “Asiye phezulu siyobona umhlaba.” “ kodwa siyophila kanjani kulomhlaba?” kwabuza inyokaencane. “Sizahuqa ngezisu zethu?” “Izinyoka zomoya angeke zisihleke na ngokubaphansi kakhulu?” kwasho umngani. “Angekesihuquze kodwa sizohamba!”Kancane kancane, zeluleka izinyoka . Zihlangene,zaqala zabhukudela phezulu ekukhanyeni. Njegoba zifika phezulu edamini, okungajwayelekangakwenzeka. Imisila yezinyoka yanqamuka ngokubili.Zakhula nemilenze nezinzwane. Lapha ngaphansikwamakhanda azo, kwakhula izingalo ezimbiliezinezandla neminwe. Bazingase yizona iziyoka, kodwa indoda nomfazi. “Sizozenzela indlu yethu entabeni.”Kwasho umfazi . “ Ngamalangawonke ekuseni sizabona ilangaliphuma, bese lisifudumezeemzimbeni emuva.” “Woza,” kwasho indoda yokuqala . “Ngizoza,” kwasho umfazi wokuqala. Base behambabonke baya emhlabeni wako omusha.

Sonke sahamba saya endalini yasemakethe . Ubaba wathengela uXolani izibuko ezinhle.Umama wangithengela ikepisi egqamile eluhlaza sasibhakabhaka.Ingane yona yathola uswidi. Endleleni eya ekhaya kwaba nesivunguvungu somoya.Saphephula ikepisi lami. Ikepisi lami lagaxela esihlahleni. Ngakhala kakhulu angizange ngidle nesidlo sami sakusihlwa. Ngabo lobobusuku, kwaphuma inyanga yakhanyisa ngqoekepisini lami elisesihlahleni. Inyanga yayilinganisa ikepisi lami yase imamatheka, nami ngahleka. Ngosuku olulandelayo ukuphuma kwesikole umama wanginika ikepisi entsha ebomvu.“Ilethwe yinyanga,” kusho umama. Ngalobobusuku mina nenyanga sawagqoka amakepisi ethu sahleka.Sasijabule. Ucabanga ukuthi ilanga iyasidinga isigqoko? Qagela yisiphi isigqoko engisigqoke namuhla!

Elinyilanga kwakukhona umndeniababehlala emzaneni. Abazali kulomndeni neba vuka ekuseni njaloekuseni, ukusebenza emasimini.Zayishiya umntwana nendodanayabo endala, uSipho ngubanieyishumi ubudala, futhi indodakaziyabo endala uBulelwa,owayeneminyaka eyishumi nambiliubudala. Izingane zakhe ezindalanebathanda ukudlala ngaphandleemini kanye babekhohliwe ukwenzaindlu yabo yasendlini.Abafana nebathanda ukudlalaibhola Amantombazane nebathandaukudlala nge onodoli emhlabeniegcekeni. Bakhohlwa mayelananginakekela ingane lapho abanganebaba bafiga. Umntwana akhala,akhala akekho weza. Elinyilanga izingane zabekaumntwana ngaphasi kwesihlahlaemthunzini phezu kwenguboegqamile ebomvu. Bahamba bayodlala. Ingane yaqala ukukhalaevamile.Iqembu iNdwa landizelangaphezu enkundleni yezemidlalokanye wahawukela ikhala.Zazama ukuthola abantwanaukuqaphela ukuthi inganewayememeza kodwa abantwanabaqhubeka ukudlala. IziNdwazanquma ukuthatha ingane besebaikhulisa bona. iNdwa ezine zilamukele zizolanda umntwana ngaphansikwesihlahla. iNdwa ngamunye yathatha ekhoneni ngegubokomntwana waphakamisa umntwana phezulu bese zandiza.Izingane abazange bakuqaphele lutho goba kade badlala bamtasa.Abazali yezingane nebasebenza kanzima elangeni elishisayo Bekhushisa kakhulu kangangokubaumama wanquma ziphumulengaphansi kwesihlahla. Nakubayena ephumule ezwa umntwanaekhala. Yena waqalaza akwazi lutho.Wabe asabheka phezulu wabona iziNdwa ezine ezindizayo ziphetheumnthwanakhe engubeni ebomvu.Wathethisa futhi wazisukela iziNdwaLapho owesifazana etshela umyeniwakhe lokho ebona akazangeakholelwe wakhe. IziNdwa zafihla usana phakathikomhlanga sokuvikela. Babefunaukuthola umndeni omushawayeyobanakekela umntwana.Bathi badlisa walibeka ukulala. Basebandiza bayo funa ukudla okuningi.Umntwana babelele isikhathi esidengaphandle ekhala. Laphoumntwana waphaphama kwaqalabekhala ngoba kwabe alambile. . Ixoxo wacabanga ukuthi iziNdwaabantshontshe umntwana, futhiwanquma ufihle ingane kusukelaiziNdwa.Kungazelelwe ixoxo wezwaizwi iziNdwa. Kwakungekhonesikhathi sakufihla. Ixoxokugwinywe umntwana wacashaiMbila.Lapho iziNdwa befika bathi abasoukuthola umntwana futhi landizelaayofuna kuwo. Ixoxo ezitshakaduleemuva umntwana ekhaya Kwaba umdeni wemntwana ehleziebusuku kabi kungazelelwe ixoxowagxumela ngomyango. Ixoxowabatshela ukuthi khinsa kanjaniingane yabo. Bacela isele ukuzeabanikele ingane.“Ngiphe izimpukane ezithathuukubangidle ngizokunika umntwana”,wathi ixoxo. Ubaba wabambaizimpukane ezithathu wabandlakuze ixoxo. Ixoxo yakhohlola futhiumntwana kanye. Ixoxo wagxumafuthi umdeni wasina ngenjabulo.

Sithanda ukudlalaibhola lezinyawo. Njalo ngoLwesinesihlangana noNeli. UNeli usifundisa ibholalezinyawo. Uma siqeda ukudlala,uyasikhuthaza. Simthanda kakhuluuNeli. Uma ehambasiyadumala. Namuhla uNeliusiphathele okuthile ... ... usiphathele izinguboezintsha zokudlalaibhola.

Kudala, esigodini saseNtabanhle, kwakunendoda eyanesilonda esibi emlenzeni. Lesi silonda sasinenkani ukuphola. Le ndoda yayingasakwazi ukuma nanokuhamba ngenxa yalesi silonda. Yayihlala nomndeni wayo, unkosikazi nabantwana. Babenamadodana amathathu nendodakazi eyodwa. Igama lendodakazi kwakunguNolwazi. Kwabe kungumsebenzi wakhe ukunakekela ubaba wakhe. Amadodana ayesebenza emasimini futhi elusa imfuyo. UNolwazi wayeyintombazane enhle. Wonke umphakathi wawumkhonzile futhi umhlonipha. Abazali bakaNolwazi babemfisela umyeni oqotho nonakekelayo. Loyo owayezoba ngumyeni kaNolwazi wayezobhekana nesu elinzima. Leyo ndoda eyayizomthatha abe unkosikazi wayo, kwakumele ihambe iyokhipha ikhambi echibini elaliseduze khona esigodini. Kwakunenkolelo ukuthi leli khambi lalizokwelapha isilonda sikayise kaNolwazi. Inkinga ngechibi, kuthiwa lalinemimoya emibi futhi eyingozi. Amanye amadoda ayeseke azama ukuyothatha leli khambi ayebuya engaliphethe. Amanye ayengabuyi kwakhona echibini lapho. UNolwazi yayimkhathaza le ndaba. Abafowabo babengalokothi baye kuleli chibi. Wagcina enqume ukuthi yena Nolwazi, uzoya kuleli chibi ayothatha leli khambi. Ngelinye ilanga umama wakhe wathi kuye, "Mntanami, amadoda anamandla ehlulekile, wena bewungubani ukuyolanda leli khambi?" UNolwazi wayesezitshelile ukuthi yena uzohamba. Endleleni eya echibini, wahlangana nesalukazi sithwele umyaba wezinkuni. UNolwazi wasisiza wasithwalisa. Sabonga isalukazi, sathi kuye, "Lalela kahle. Ngizokutshela ukuthi uzofinyelela kanjani ekhambini, nanokuthi kumele wenzeni lapho ufika echibini." Uma efika eduze nechibi, uNolwazi, wawubona lomndeni wemimoya evunguzayo idansa iphuza echibini. Wema wayibukela. Emva kwesikhashana ngayinye yashona phansi yalala. Kuthe seyilele yonke, UNolwazi waziphonsa echibini, walithola ikhambi. Ngesikhathi esephuma emanzini, amanzi ayesemaningi ngakuye lapho eyozophumela ngakhona. Kwathi lapho ephumela ngaphandle, nansi imimoya seyivukile. Wafikelwa ukwesaba, wabe esekhumbula ukuthi isalukazi sasithe akabocula iculo ayemfundise lona, ayilolozele le mimoya. Iculo lalithi: "Mina ndodakazi yaseNtabenhle, ngivela lapha echibini nami. Ngize lapha ukuzocela ikhambi lenu babusi bami. Ubaba wami uyalidinga ukwelapha isilonda sakhe esingapholi. Ngisizeni babusi bami." Izwi likaNolwazi lalimnandi ngokumangazayo, imimoya yacela ukuba aphinde acule futhi. Nangempela waphinda. Ukucula kwakhe kwayilolozela imimoya, thu thu! Yalala. Ngokushesha uNolwazi wahlaba ngejubane ebheke ekhaya. Wafika ekhaya, elindelwe. Bonke babemangele. Wangena endlini, wasebenzisa ikhambi, ubaba wakhe welapheka, wavuka wema ngezinyawo. Umphakathi wonkana wawujabule uncoma isibindi sikaNolwazi.

Kudaladala, uSikhukhukazi noKhozi babengabangani. Ngelinye ilanga, uKhozi wafica uSikhukhukazi ephumule phansi kwesihlahla nezikhwama zakhe. USikhukhukazi wayemi ngomlenze owodwa. UKhozi wabuza uSikhukhukazi, "Uphi omunye umlenze wakho?" USikhukhukazi waphendula wathi, "Umphathisitolo uwunqumile, wase enginika le mpahla esikhundleni sawo." UKhozi wabuza, "Ngingakwenza nami lokho?" UKhozi naye wayefuna izimpahla. USikhukhukazi wavuma. Engazelele lutho umphathisitolo, kwafika uKhozi. "Ngicela unginqume umlenze nami bese unginika izimpahla." Wavuma umphathisitolo. Khele, khele, khele kukheleza uKhozi ebheke ekhaya. Wayejabule nokho ngempahla ayeyinikwe umphathisitolo. Wathi efika ekhaya uKhozi, wafica uSikhukhukazi ehamba ngayo yomibili imilenze yakhe. "Mameshane!" Wathukuthela uKhozi wagxumela uSikhukhukazi. Zaya kuSikhukhukazi. Yingakho uKhozi ehlala ehubha amachwane kaSikhukhukazi. Uma eke walibamba, uyalidla.

Emandulo amantombazane amathathu ahamba ayotheza. Ilanga lalishisa kakhulu base behlela emfuleni ukuyobhukuda. Badlala, bethelana ngamanzi ngesikhathi bebhukuda. Kusenjalo babona ukuthi isikhathi sase sihambile. Baphuthuma bephindela emakhaya. Bathi sebesondele emakhaya, uNozibele wazithinta emqaleni wathola ukuthi umgexo wakhe wawungekho. Wayewukhohliwe! “Ngicela ningiphelezele bandla!” ebancenga. Kodwa abangane bakhe bathi sekuhlwile. UNozibele waphindela yedwa emfuleni. Wawuthola umgexo wakhe waphuthuma ephindela ekhaya. Kodwa endleleni waduka ebumnyameni. Buqamama wabona ukukhanya okwakuqhamuka endlini. Washesha wayakhona, wafika wangqongqoza emnyango. Wamangala kakhulu ukuthi kwavula inja, yathi “Ufunani la?" “Ngidukile ngicela indawo yokulala,“ kusho uNozibele. “Ngena ngaphakathi, ngale kwalokho ngizokuluma!”,kusho inja. UNozibele wangena ngaphakathi. Inja yathi, “Ngiphekele!” “Kodwa angikaze ngiyiphekele inja,” kuphendula uNozibele. “Phela ngale kwaloko ngizokuluma!“ kusho inja. UNozibele wayiphekela inja. Inja yathi, “Ngindlalele umbhede!" Nozibele wathi, “Angikaze ngendlalele inja." “Ndlala ngale kwaloko ngizokuluma!",kusho inja. uNozibele wawendlala umbhede. Zonke izinsuku wayepheka, ashanele, futhi ayiwashele inja. Ngelinye ilanga inja yathi, “Nozibele, namhlanje ngizovakashela abangane bami. Shanela la endlini, upheke bese uwashe izingubo zami ngaphambi kokuba ngibuye.” Isikhashana nje inja isihambile, uNozibele wathatha izinwele ezintathu ekhanda lakhe. Wabeka unwele olulodwa ngaphansi kombhede, wabeka olunye unwele emva kwesivalo, wabeka olunye esibayeni. Wase wabaleka waya ekhaya ngokushesha. Yathi inja ibuya, yafuna uNozibele. "Nozibele, ukuphi?" imemeza. “Ngilapha ngaphansi kombhede," kusho unwele lokuqala. “Ngilapha, emva kwesivalo," kusho unwele lwesibili. “Ngilapha, esibayeni,“ kusho unwele lwesithathu. Inja yavele yabona nje ukuthi uNozibele wayeyicuphile. Inja yagijima imfuna. Kodwa abafowabo kaNozibele babeyilinde nezinkulu izinduku. Inja yabaleka yaphindela emuva, ayiphindanga yabonakala kusukela ngalelo langa.

Ngicwecwaamazambane. Ngiqoba iklabishi. Ngigrethaiziqathi. Ngigeza ubhontshisi. Ngiqoba ithanga. Ngiqoba imifino. Umama wami uqoba uanyanisi. Uanyanisi ungenzangikhale umauqotshwa.

Káínyoo peê éíshírítâ enkeráí? Kájo kéáta esúmash. Káínyoo peê eisinánuo enkáyíóní? Mebayíé etoduá ményé. Káínyoo peê eshipá entitó? Kéáta enkilâ ng'éjúk. Káínyoo peê eshipá oltásât? Kégíra aisumá enkatiní naitíshipa. Káínyoo peê eshipá enkítok? Kégíra inkérâ ényená áaisuma áaitobiraki. Káínyoo ening'íto ená kítok?Kájo nanú kétukúrrua.

Lena yindaba yeNgede, nomfanyana owayehala uSibusiso.Ngelinye ilanga uSibusiso wayeyozingela wezwa uNgede.Umlomo kaSibusiso waqala waconsa amathe esecabanga uju.Wama wazama ukulalelisisa, wayifuna waze wayibona inyoni ihleziemagatsheni esihlahla phezulu."Chitik-chitik-chitik," Kusho inyoni encane idiniwe, indizelaesihlahleni esilandelayo, nesilandelayo."Chitik, chitik, chitik," Iqhubeka nomsindo, ihamba imaukuqinisekisa ukuthi uyayilandela uSibusiso. Emva kwesikhathi eside, bafikaesihlahleni esikhulu somkhiwane.Ingede yagxumagxumaemagatsheni. Yagcinaseyisegatsheni elilodwa yabhekauSibusiso sengathi ithi, “Nakhoke!Ulindeni?"USibusiso wayengaziboni izinyosiesihlahleni kodwa wayeyithembaiNgede. USibusiso wabeka phansiumcibisholo wakhe wokuzingelangaphansi kwesihlahla, wacoshelaizinkunyana bese wabasa umliloomncane.Ngesikhathi umlilo usuvutha kahle,wathatha ukhuni olomile walufakaenhliziyweni yomlilo. Lolukhunilwalaziwa ngokuba nentuthu eningiuma luvutha. Wagibela esihlahleni,ebambe ngamazinyo isidunuesingashisi salolukhuni Ngokushesha wezwa umsindowezinyosi zibubula. Zazingenaziphuma embobeni yesihlahla,esidlekeni sazo phela.Ngesikhathi uSibusiso efikaesidlekeni sezinyosi washuthekaukhuni oluthunyayo embotsheni.Zaphuma ngokushesha, zidiniwefuthi zididekile. Zandiza zabalekangoba zingazwani nentuthu, kodwangaphambi kokuba zibaleke zaqalezamzwisa ubuhlungu uSibusisongokumtinyela! Zathi sezibalekile, uSibusisowashutheka izandla esidlekeni.Wakhipha izandla sesigcweleikhekheba, eliconsa ujuolunamafutha, nenhlava emhlophe.Ngokucophelela wafaka ikhekhebaesikhwameni ayesiphethe besewasigaxa ehlombe, waqala wehlaesihlahleni. Ngokulangazelela, iNgede yabukayonke into eyayenziwa uSibusiso.Yayilindele ukuba uSibusisoayishiyele ikhekheba ukubongausizo lwayo.Ngokukhulu ukushesha iNgedeyasuka yahlala igatsha negatsha,iya ngokusondelela phansi.Ekugcineni uSibusiso wafinyelelaphansi.iNgede yahlala phansi etshenieduze komfana elindele ukuthiayibonge. USibusiso wacisha umlilo,wacosha umcibisholo wakhe wahambawaya ekhaya eziba inyoni.INgede yamumemeza ngokudinwa, "VIC-torr! VIC-torrr!"UGingile wama wagqolozela inyoni encane,wahleka kakhulu.“Uyalufuna uju, uyalufuna mngani wami? Ha! Imina engenzewonke umsebenzi, ngaze ngathola nokutinyeleka. Kungani kumelengikuphe uju lwami olumnandi kangaka?” Wasuka wahamba.INgede yathukuthela! "Ayikho enye into engingayenza! Kodwangizoziphindiselela." Ngelinye ilanga sekuphele amasonto ambalwa, uSibusisowaphinda wezwa umsindo weNgede. Wakhumbula loluya lujuolwalumnandi, walangazelela ukuyilandela inyoni futhi.Emva kokuba iNgede imholile uSibusiso kwaze kwaba sekuphelenikwehlathi, iNgede yama yaphumula esihlahleni sameva."Ahh," kucabanga uSibusiso. “Kufanele ukuba isidleke sikuso lesisihlahla." Ngokushesha wakha umlilo omncane waqala wanwebela,isikhuni esesibambe ngamazinyo. iNgede yama yabukela. USibusiso wanwebela, ezibuza ukuthi kungani pho engawuzwalomsindo ojwayelekile wokububula kwezinyosi. “Mhlawumbeisidleke sisekujuleni kwalesisihlahla," ezicabangela.Wadlulela kwelinye igatsha. Esikhundleni sokuthola isidlekewazithela ebusweni bengwe!Ingwe yathukuthela kabi ukuthi iphazanyiswe ebuthongweni bayo.Yavula amehlo, nomlomo yaveza amazinyo amakhulu acijile. Ngaphambi kokuba iNgwe imudle uSibusiso, wehlika ngokusheshaesihlahleni.Kulokho kushesha kwakhe wageja igatsha lesihlahla,wabhamazeka phansi, wakuquka iqakala. Waxhugeza ngakhokonke okusemandleni.Ngenhlanhla yakhe, iNgwe yayisaphethwe ubuthongo ukuthiingamusukela.Ingede kwabe sokungu kuziphindiselela kwayo.Kanti noSibusiso wafunda isifundo. Abantwana nabazukulubakaSibusiso uma bezwa indabayeNgede, bayihlonipha kakhulu.Njalo uma beyotapa izinyosibayaqinisekisa ukuthi bashiyaikhekheba lekhethelo kwiNgede!

Kungani isibhakabhaka siluhlaza? Asihlali siluhlaza. Kunjalo? Kungani amaqabunga eluhlaza satshani? Awahlali eluhlaza satshani. Akunjalo? Kungani ubhanana uphuzi? Ubhanana ovuthiwe uphuzi.Ongakavuthwa uluhlaza satshani. Kungani isambulela simnyama? Akusizona zonke izambulela ezimnyama. Kungani igazi libomvu Kukhona izinikamandla egazini okuyizona ezenza igazi libe bomvu. Kungani usawoti umhlophe?  Angazi.

Indlovu eyodwayahamba yayophuzaamanzi. Izindlulamithi ezimbilizahamba zayophuzaamanzi. Kunezinyathi ezinenamalanda amane.Zonke ziyophuzaamanzi. Izimpala ezinhlanunezintibaneeziyisithupha ziyophuzaamanzi. Amaxoxo ayisikhombisanezinhlanzieziyisishiyagalombilikusemanzini. Amadubeayisishiyagalolunyeayophuza amanzi. Kwafika ibhubesielilodwa lizophuzaamanzi. Ubani onesibindingokwanelesokuqhubeka aphuze?

Lona nguNkomo. Emini uyinkomoejwayelekile. Undizisa ikhayithi. Ukhahlela ibhola. Ebusuku uyinkomoenamaqhinga! Usindisa izimpilozabantu... ulwa nobugebengu. Kodwa uma uvala amehlo akho ngci, wenze isifiso... Inkomo yezimanga ingakuvakashela nawe! Isiphetho.

Indawo yaseNsingweni izungezwe amagquma, amahlathi nezintaba. Zaziziningi izinyoka ezazitholakala kula mahlathi akulezi zintaba. Kwelinye lamahlathi, kwakukhona inyoka enkulu, inhlwathi, eyaze yanikwa igama kwathiwa nguMagilogilo. Le nyoka, akekho owayengayesabi, ngemikhuba yayo. Yayigwinya wena mvu, wena mbuzi. Langa limbe, uNono, uSanele noNtonjana bahamba bayotheza kuleli hlathi. Ugogo wabo wayebadonse ngendlebe wathi, "Anibobhasobha uMagilogilo. Ningathathi lutho olunye ehlathini ngaphandle kwezinkuni." Kodwa uNtonjana akalalelanga isiyalo sikagogo wabo. Amantombazane ayeziphathele umphako wobisi, wena bhanana, bhatata kanye namanzi. Bathatha nezibopho kanye nembazwana yokugawula izinkuni. Nabaya belibhekise ehlathini. Endleleni amantombazane ayehamba ezixoxela futhi ehleka. Besazixoxela kanjalo kwezwakala uNono okunguyena omdala esethithi, "Sh! Sh! Sesisondele endaweni kaMagilogilo manje." USanele waphendula ngelokuthi, "Hhayi bo! Bhekani! Sengathi amazinyo kaMagilogilo egolide nje lawa abantu abahlale bexoxa ngawo. Asizithatheleni wona." uNono washeshe wabakhumbuza, "Niyashesha ukukhohlwa. Utheni ugogo kithi? Akashongo ukuthi singathathi noma singacoshi lutho olunye ngaphandle kwezinkuni?" "Ogogo! Angikholwa mina yiloko. Ubezikhulumela nje ugogo. Mina ngiyawafuna, ngizozithathela la mazinyo. Awegolide pho! Hhayisuka! Ngiyawathatha," kuphendula iqhalaqhala elinguNtonjana. Odadewabo bakhathazeka ngesenzo sikaNtonjana, mncane kodwa akakhuzeki. Omunye wabo wezwakala esegcizelela inkulumo yabo wathi, "Ungasho njalo ukuthi asikukhuzanga." Yize odadewabo babemkhuza, akalalelanga. Ngaso leso sikhathi, memfu uMagilogilo ezobheka amazinyo akhe. Yacasuka yafa inyoka ingasawatholi amazinyo ayo. Kusenjalo, yezwa umsindo wamazwi amantombazane exoxa, egegetheka. Yacabanga ikhuluma yodwa, "Ngizobathola, bacabanga bahlakaniphile, nami-ke, ngihlakaniphile. "Yahuqazela inyoka yahamba yayocasha ngaphansi kwetshe elikhulu elaliseduze nendlela lapho amantombazane ayezodlula khona. Aqhamuka amantombazane ethwele iminyaba yezinkuni. Bezwa ngomsindo ohazayo, bathuka bazama ukucasha. Waloku uqhubekile umsindo sengathi usondela kubo. "Ssssss!" Besalalele loko, memfu! UMagilogilo phambi kwabo. Wayesephakamise ikhanda lakhe, evule umlomo elindele ukugadla. "Ngitsheleni kahle, ngubani othathe amazinyo ami egolide?" kubuza uMagilogilo ngokucasuka. Waqhubeka wathi, "Owathathile ngizomthola masinya nje. Lalelani la, nizongiculela-ke. Loyo oyocula ngaphandle kokwenza iphutha, nguye ongenacala. Futhi loyo, nguye oyoqhubeka nomyaba wakhe aye ekhaya. Kodwa-ke, loyo oyobhimba ngiyamzwela." Kwacaca ukuthi kumele acule amantombazane ukuze kubonakale onecala. Kwaqala uNono, kwalandela uSanele. Kwagcina isalakutshelwa esingu Ntonjana. Wayevevezela ukwethuka. Wathi uyaqala, izwi alangaphuma kahle, wahoshozela, namagama eyengezwakali nokuthi uthini. Kwezwakala uMagilogilo esethi, "Uyabhimba, awuzizwa?" Kwacaca enyokeni ukuthi nguye othathe amazinyo ayo. Akazange achithe isikhathi uMagilogilo, mimiliti uNtonjana. Bathathela ngejubane odadewabo bebheke ekhaya, beyobikela abadala ngokwenzekekile.

Kudala kwakukhona umfana igama lakhe kungu Demane. Wayenodadewabo oyiwele okungu Demazane.  Ngenkathi abazali babo beshona, bahamba bayohlala kwamalumewabo. Kodwa abazange baphatheke kahle kwamalume.Babeshaywa bephiwa iphalishi elincane kanye ngosuku.Babaleka kwamalume.  Bathola umgede ababezohlala kuwo. Babesaba ngoba bake bezwakuthiwa kukhona amazimu ahlala entabeni. Bacanga icebolokwenza isivalo esiqinile, sokuvimba emnyango onezimboboezimbili kuphela zokufaka umoya nokukhanya.Demane kusho udadewabo, "Hlala la ngaphakathi ngisayozingelaungalinge upheke inyama. Amazimu ayalithanda iphunga lenyamaephekiwe. "  Usuku nosuku uDemane wayebuya nokuthile akuzingelile;onogwaja, izinyoni kanye nezinyamazane ezincane.Uma esesondele ngasemgedeni wayecula athi, "Demazane,Demazane, mntaka mama, ngivulele. Izinkonjane zizongena.Umnyango unezimbobo ezimbili."  uDemazane wayengathandi ukuhlala emgedeni usuku lonke.Ngelinye ilanga, ngesikhathi umfowabo esahambile, waphumelangaphandle, wathola isihlahla angasigibela. Wazizwa ekhululekilefuthi ejabulile."Akukho mazimu la. Kungenzeka umalume wayethi kunamazimungoba enzela ukusethusa nje", kusho yena ecabanga.  Ngosuku olulandelayo wazizwa enesibindi sokubasa umlilo ukuzeafudumale.Kodwa wawubasa ngaphakathi emgedeni waqinisekisa ukuthiumnyango uvalekile ukuze aphephe."Ngiyacabanga ngeke kube nankinga uma ngosa inyamana encanela emlilweni kungaba mnandi ukudla inyama."  Ngesikhathi umfowabo efika wacula njengenjwayelo, "Demazane,Demazane, mntaka mama, ngivulele. Izinkonjanezizongena. Umnyango unezimbobo ezimbili."Wavula umnyango wangena. Ngesikhathi umfowabo ebonainyama evuthiwe wabuza wathi, "Uyipheke kanjani inyama umliloungekho?”Waphendula ngokushesha wathi, “Ngiyomise elangeningaphandle.”UDemane wayekhathele kakhulu ukuba wayengalokhu ephikisananaye, bahlala phansi badla inyama.  Ngosuku olulandelayo waphinda wabasa umlilo wapheka inyamafuthi. Wabe eseqedile ngesikhathi ezwa izwi eliculayo ngaphandlelithi,"Demazane, Demazane, mntaka mama, ngivulele. Izinkonjanezizongena. Umnyango unezimbobo ezimbili."Kodwa izwi lalingafani nelikamfowabo. UDemazanewaphendula wathi, "Angeke awusiye umfowethu. Wena izwilakho alifani nelikamfowethu."uDemazane wazizwa ekhuselekile emgedeni.  Emva kwesikhashana futhi wezwa oculayo ngaphandle komgede"Ngivulele dadewethu. Demazane, Demazane, mntakamama, ngivulele. Izinkonjane zizongena. Umnyango unezimboboezimbili."Walizwa ilizwi ukuthi liyafana nelika mfowabo wase evulaumnyango.  Kwaqhamuka indoda enkulu esabekayo okwakuyizimuemgedeni. Labamba uDemazane ngaphambi kokuba azameukubaleka.UDemazane wathatha umlotha oshisayo emlilweni.Ngesikhathi ewuphethe wayewuchitha la kwakuzonyathelakhona lendoda.  Ngalona lolosuku uDemane wazama ukucupha ngedlanzanaizinyosi - phela wayezilayishe esikhwameni esiqinile esixwayeemahlombe akhe.Ngenkathi efika emgedeni, wathola umnyango uvuliwenodadewabo engekho.Wabona umlotha. Walandela umlotha waze wabona umlilobuqamama.  Eduze komlilo wabona kuhlezi indoda enkulu embi kukhonanesikhwama esikhulu eduze kwayo.UDemane wasondela endodeni ngokushesha enza sengathiuyaxhuga, “Baba ngicela ungisize. Ngilimele emlenzeni. Ngidingaamanzi."Izimu laphendula lathi, “Ngizokutholela amanzi uma ungathembisaukungathinti isikhwama sami lisho lisibeka ngobunono isikhwamasalo phansi."  Ngesikhathi lisahambile, uDemane wasala wasika intamboeyayifase isikhwama wakhipha udadewabo phakathi esikhwameni.Wathatha izinyosi ayeziphethe walayisha zona esikhwameni basebacasha balinda ukubona ukuthi kuzokwenzakalani.  Ngesikhathi izimu libuya namanzi labuya nendodana kanyenendodakazi yalo.Lathi endodakazini, “Kukhona into emnandi esikhwameni sithatheusondele naso la!"Indodakazi yavula isikhwama kancane ukubona ukuthi kukhonani,eshuuu!“Ziyangincinza.““Hamba uyomusiza.”Kkusho izimu kwindodana yalo, kodwanakwindodana kwaba njalo.  “Musani ukungenza isiphukuphuku nina,” limemeza lishayaizinyawo phansi ukucasuka.Lavala umnyango lase liyozivulela lona isikhwama.Izinyosi ezase zidiniwe zaphuma ngobuningi bazo zalitinyelaekhanda, ekhaleni, nasemehlweni. Lagxumagxuma lizigingqaphansi ngenxa yezinhlungu.  Laphuma ligijima lizama ukuyofaka ikhanda lalo phakathi odakeni.Labona isiphunzi sokhuni oludala, lafaka ikhanda phakathi kantiyilapho kuhlala khona izinyosi futhi.Lapho uDemane noDemazane babetape khona uju olumnandilwezinyosi.

Ngiyathanda ukufunda. Ngizofundela bani? Udadewethu ulele. Ngizofundela bani? Umama nogogo bayapheka. Ngizofundela ubaba. Ubaba nomkhulu bakhanda imoto. Kulungile. Ngizozifundela mina.

UKhalai lona. Uneminyaka eyisikhombisa. Igama lakhe lichaza 'olungile' ngolimi lwakubo, isi Lubukusu. UKhalai uvuka ekuseni akhulume nesihlahla samawolintshi. "Ngiyacela sihlahla samawolintshi, khula ubemkhulu usiphe amawolintshi amaningi avuthiwe." UKhalai uya esikoleni. Endleleni ukhuluma notshani. "Ngiyakucela tshani, yiba luhlaza kakhulu ungomi." UKhalai wedlula izimbali zasendle, "Ngiyanicela zimbali, hlalani niqhakaza ukuze nginihlome ezinweleni zami." Esikoleni, uKhalai ukhuluma nesihlahla esimila phakathi nezakhiwo, "Ngiyakucela sihlahla, khipha amahlamvu amade ukuze sifunde siphansi komthunzi wakho." UKhalai ukhuluma nothango oluzungeze isikole, "Ngicela ukhule uqine ukuze uvimbe abantu ababi bangangeni." Lapho uKhalai ebuya esikoleni uvakashela isihlahla samawolintshi. "Asevuthiwe kodwa amawolintshi akho?" kubuza uKhalai. "Amawolintshi aseluhlaza," uKhalai edonsa umoya." Ngiyokubona kusasa sihlahla samawolintshi," kusho uKhalai. "Mhlawumbe uzobe usunalo iwolintshi lami elivuthiwe!"

Emandulo kwakukhona intombazanyana, igama layo kunguKalabushe. UKalabushe wayeyintombanyana ekhuluma kakhulu. Umama wayo wayemxwayisile ngalokukhuluma kakhulu kwakhe. Kodwa uKalabushe akazange amlalele umama wakhe. Ngelinye ilanga uKalabushe wagulelwa ngubabekazi wakhe owayehlala kwesinye isigodi esiseduze nabo. Umama kaKalabushe wayematasatasa kakhulu ngalelo langa. Kwabe sekuyintambama lapho umama wakhe ethuma uKalabushe ukuthi ahambisele ubabekazi wakhe ogulayo ukudla. Endleleni uKalabushe wahlangana no Sgidi impisi. Eyayizishintshe yaba umuntu. Impisi yambuza ukuthi uphetheni. UKalabushe waphendula wathi, "Inyama, amaqanda nobisi." Yize umama wakhe wayemxwayisile ukuthi angatsheli muntu ukuthi uphetheni. UKalabushe watshela impisi ukuthi uhambisela ubabekazi wakhe ogulayo ukudla. Impisi yaqala ukucabanga ngenyama eyayiphethwe uKalabushe. Yagijima ngejubane elikhulu imshiya ngemuva iya kubabekazi wakhe. Impisi yafika yamgwinya ubabekazi wakhe yabe isizemboza ngengubo yakhe yokulala. Ngesikhathi uKalabushe efika kwakuthule cwaka endlini. Wangena ngaphakathi ememeza ethi, "Babekazi ukuphi?" Uma engalizwa izwi lika babekazi wakhe wangena e egumbini lakhe lokulala. Wamangala uma ebona umuntu ozemboze ngenkulu ingubo le. "Babekazi kungani unezindlebe ezinkulu kangaka?" kubuza uKalabushe. USgidi impisi yaphendula ngaphansi kwengubo wathi, "Khona ngizokuzwa kahle." UKalabushe wabuza futhi kubabekazi wakhe wathi, "Kungani amehlo akho emakhulu kangaka?" uSgidi waphendula wathi, "Khona ngizokubona kahle." Ekugcineni uKalabushe wabuza wathi, "Kungani unomlomo omkhulu kangaka namhlanje?" USgidi waphendula wathi, "Khona ngizogwinya kahle." USgidi impisi yagxuma embhedeni yamgwinya uKalabushe. Ngenxa yokuthi uKalabushe wayekhuluma kakhulu, wakhuluma noma esesiswini sempisi uSgidi. Wayebuza imibuzo eminingi. Ekugcineni uSgidi wayesekhathele imibuzo eminingi kaKalabushe wanquma ukumhlanzela ngaphandle. UKalabushe nobabekazi wakhe basindiswa abantu bendawo. Kusukela ngalelo langa uKalabushe akaphindanga wakhuluma kakhulu nabantu angabazi.

Ngilahlekelwe iphini lami lokuphebeza futhi angilitholi. Ngilibheke emva kwesivalo. Alikho. Ngilibheke eshalofini. Angilitholi. Ngilibheke phansi kombhede. Angilitholanga. Ngalifuna phakathi ebhokisini. Angilifanisanga. Ngalifuna ophahleni lwendlu. Ngalibheka, lapha nalaphaya, angilitholanga ndawo.

UNamakuru nomfowabo sebelungele ukuya esikoleni. UNamakuru ugibelisa umfowabo ebhayisikilini lakhe. Abangani babo bayabahalalisela lapho bengena ngebhayisikili esikoleni. Bathi besesendlini yokufundela, kwafika inkawu phandle. Inkawu igibela ibhayisikili likaNamakuru iyaphuma iyahamba. Izingane ziyayijaha inkawu. Inkawu ishiya ibhayisikili phansi kwesihlahla. Inkawu iyahlamba iya phakathi nechibi. Inombela kudekude phezulu esihlahleni. Inkawu iyabathathazela ngesandla sayo! Izingane nazo ziyathathaza. Selibuyile futhi ibhayisikili lika Namakuru.

Emuzini osekwehleleni kweNtaba iKenya eMpumalanga ye-Afrika, kwakunentombazanyana eyayisebenza emasimini nomama wayo. UWangari wayekuthanda ukuba ngaphandle. Esivandeni sokudla somndeni wakhe wayelima khona umhlabathi ngegeja lakhe i-machete. Wayecindezela imbewu encane emhlabathini ofudumele. Isikhathi sosuku ayesithanda kwakungemvana kokushona kwelanga. Lapho sekumnyama kakhulu ukuthi angabona izitshalo, uWangari wayazi ukuthi sekuyisikhathi sokubuyela ekhaya. UWangari wayeyingane ehlakaniphe kakhulu futhi wayeselangazelela ukuya esikoleni. Kodwa umama kanye nobaba wakhe babefuna ahlale ekhaya ukuze abasize. Wayekuthanda ukufunda! ENyuvesi yaseMelika uWangari wafunda izinto eziningi ezintsha. Wafunda ngezitshalo nangokuthi zikhula kanjani. Wakhumbula nangokuthi wakhula kanjani: edlala imidlalo nabafowabo emithunzini yezihlahla ezinkulu emahlathini amahle aseKenya. Lapho kwanda akufundayo, wabona nokuthi wayebathanda abantu baseKenya. Wayefuna ukuba bajabule futhi bakhululeke. Lapho eseqede izifundo zakhe, wabuyela eKenya. Kodwa izwe lakhe lase liguqukile. Kwakukhona amapulazi amakhulu ayesendlaleke kulo mhlaba. UWangari wakwazi ukuthi kumele enzeni. Wafundisa abantu besifazane ukuthi batshale izihlahla ngembewu. Ngokuhamba kwesikhathi, kwakhula izihlahla ezintsha zaba ngamahlathi, kwase kuqala ukugeleza kwemifula futhi. Umlayezo kaWangari wasabalala ne-Afrika. UWangari wayesebenze kanzima. UWangari washona ngowezi-2011, kodwa sicabanga ngaye njalo uma sibona isihlahla esihle.

Ngelinye ilanga unogwajawayehamba ngasemfuleni. Umvubu naye wayekhonalapho, ezihambela futhi ezidlelautshani obumnandi. Umvubu akazange abone ukuthinonogwaja ukuthi ukhona,wamnyathela unyawongephutha.Unogwaja wamemeza ethethisaumvubu " wena mvubu!,awuboni yini ukuthiunginyathela unyawo?" Umvubu waxolisa kuye wathi, "ngiyaxolisa mngani wami,angikubonanga, ngicelaungixolele!"Kodwa unogwaja akafunangaukuzwa lutho, wathethisaumvubu wathi, "wenze lokhungabomu!,ngelinye ilanga,uzabona! uzokhokha!" Kwase kuthi unogwaja wahamba wayofuna umlilo, wathi kuye " hamba, umaumvubu ephuma emanzini eyodla utshani ufike umshise. Unginyathelile!" umlilowaphendula, " akunankinga mngani wami, ngizoyenza lokhu ongicela kona." Lokhuyana, umvubu eyodlautshani kude nasemfuleni"whoosh!" umlilo waphendukaamalangabi. Lawo malangabiacala ashisa izinwele zikamvubu. Umvubu wacala wakhalaegijimela emanzini. Izinwelezakhe zonke zazishile emlilweni.wayeloku ekhala ethi " izinwelezami zishile emlilweni! ushisezonke izinwele zami! izinwelezami ezinhle kakhulu!" Yingakho umvubu akadlaleli kude namanzi ngoba esaba ukuthi uzoshiswawumlilo. Unogwaja wathokoza kakhulu ngenkathi umvubu esha ethi, " ngazengamthola!"

UZama uvukile ulungiselela ukuya esikoleni. Uyacabanga ukuthi ngubaba ozomphekela umdokwe. Kazi uzobuya nini umama. Umnandi umdokwe kamama. "Futhi unginikeza amandla engiwadingayo esikoleni." Umdokwe kababa ulungile. Ubaba uthela ubisi ngothando. "Awumnandanga lo mdokwe! Udinga ushukela." Uyacabanga futhi uZama, "Ukube bekungumama, ngabe umnandi lo mdokwe." UZama ucela ushukela kubaba. Ubaba uthela ushukela. "Wu! Baba! Uthele usawoti!" "Baba, ubuya nini umama?"

Ngilalele uma ngifunda. Ngilalele uma ngifunda. Ingane ilele. Ngifuna ukufundelaumama. Umama uyapheka. Ngiyofundela ubaba. Ubaba ukhanda imoto. Kulungile.Ngizozifundela mina.

Ngekhala lami... ...Nginuka amasokisiangcolile. ...Nginuka izimbaliezinhle. Ngamehlo ami... ...ngibona ibhalundelindizela emoyeni. ...ngibona iKatielijabulile. Ngolimi lwami... ...nginambitha ulwandleolunosawoti. ...nginambitha i wolintshi elimnandi. Ngesandla sami... ...ngibamba isandlasakho.

Ukuba bengumphathi webankbengizonika bonke abantuimali. Kube bengimontobengizothatha abantu ngibayiselapho bathanda ukuya khonabenga khokhi. Ukuba bengumzingeli bengizozingela izilwane ezingenaboya. Ukuba bengiyigundanebengizokhula ngikhuluphalengixhose ikati. Ukuba bengi umntwanabengizokhalela izinto ezidulayokuphela. Ukuba bengiyikati bengizodla amagundane ngikhule ngibemkhulu. Ukuba bengiyisikhukhukazibengizozalela amagolideamaqanda ngiwaphe abantu. Ukuba bengingumceli wemalibengingeke ngimukeleamasente. Ukuba bengiwudokotelabengizolapha abantungezimpama. Ukuba bengiwumfundisi bengizothatha bonke abantu ukuya ezulwini. Ukuba bengimiyane bengizolala ngaphansi.

uNogwaja wayengumnganiamkhulu wenkawa Ngelinye ilanga unogwajawathi: Masihambe siyofuna intoesizoyidla. Inkawu yavuma,kodwa wayesezigwazengowakhe. Bahamba baya emasiminiombila baqala badla umbila. Kodwa unogwaja ohlakaniphilewayesekhulume nabanikazibepulazi, ukuthi abambe inkawubese eyikhombisa ukuthiiyisilima. Unogwaja ohlakanophile waqalawamemeza: Amasela! Amasela!umbila wakho usuhambewonke! Wase egxuma ebaleka. Ngokuphazima kweso abalimibase befikile bathola inkawuizama ukubaleka. Kodwainomsila omude kantiwawumbambezela. Abalimi bayilandela bememeza:Ima! Ima! Sikubonile, uwenainkawu. Kodwa bamthola base beqalabemshaya. Akakwazanga ukubekezelelaubuhungu wase ethi:Benginomngani wamiunogwaja. Uyena ongimemile. Kodwa abalimi bayinqumaumsila base beyitshela ukuthi:Hamba uyotshela umnganwakho ukuthi sikunqumeumsila! Base bahamba baya endlinikanogwaja apheka umsilawenkawu kuze bazowudla. Emva kwesidlo unogwajawabuza inkawu ukuthi iyaziukuthi beyidlani. Isilimasenkawu saphendula: Unogwaja wamtshela ukuthiubedla umsila wakhe waseebaleka. Kusukela laphobaphenduka izitha.

UHamisi udinga umfaniswano omusha wesikole. Ubaba wakhe umusa ezitolo. UHamisi ubona umfana ogqoke ihembe elihle. "Laze lalihle leliya hembe," kucabanga uHamisi. "Nami ngifisa ukuba nehembe elifana nelaloya mfana," kusho uHamisi. "Bheka, uthengisa amahembe amahle," kusho uHamisi. "Baba, ngicela ungithengele lona," esho uHamisi. "Hamisi, kufanele ngikuthengele umfaniswano," kusho ubaba wakhe. "Anginayo imali eyanele yokuthenga leliya hembe," kusho ubaba wakhe. Ubaba kaHamisi ukhokhela umfaniswano. Uyamangala lapho ebona kubuya ushintshi. Kusele imali eyanele ukuthi angathenga ihembe! Waze wanenhlanhla uHamisi! Uzokhetha liphi ihembe?

UMazinyo wayenenkingayaamehlo.Wayengakwazi ukubona ezinyeizinhlanzi. Kodwa wayengakwazi ukudlaizaqathi zakhe. USivinini ihhashi lasolwandlewathi "Mazinyo dlana izaqathizakho" Kodwa uMazinyowayengakuthandiukunambitheka kwezaqathi. "Izaqathi zizokusiza ukuthiubonekahle" kusho uSivinini. UMazinyo wabe eseyakwadokotela.UMazinyo noSivinini balindelaudokotela Shakes. Udokotela Mazibuko uthi,“Izibuko zamehlo zizokusizaubone kangcono.” UMazinyo wayengathandiukugqoka izibuko. Kodwa izibuko zamsiza ukuthiakwazi ukubona ezinyeizinhlanzi.Manje useyazidla izaqathi zakhenezinhlanzi.

UNkukhu noShongololo babengabangani. Kodwa babehlala bencintisana. Ngelinye ilanga banquma ukudlala ibhola lezinyawo befuna ukubona ukuthi ubani owayengumpetha. Baya enkundleni yebhola lezinyawo basebeqala umdlalo wabo. UNkukhu wayeshesha, kodwa uShongololo wayeshesha kakhulu. UNkukhu wayelikhahlela liye kude, kodwa elikaShongololo laliya kude kakhulu, uNkukhu waqala manje ukukhononda. Banquma ukuba bakhahlele amaphenathi. Kwaqala uShongololo ukuba avimbe emagoli. UNkukhu wafaka igoli elilodwa kuphela. Emva kwalokho kwasekuba ithuba likaNkukhu ukuvika ukungena kwegoli. UShongololo wakhahlela ibhola langena ezintini. UShongololo wapheceza ejika nebhola langena. UShongololo walishaya ngekhanda ibhola langena ezintini. UShongololo washaya amagoli amahlanu. UNkukhu kwamthukuthelisa ukuthi uhluliwe. Wayengakubekezeleli ukuhlulwa. UShongololo wavele wamhleka ngoba umngane wakhe wayesexakanisekile. UNkukhu wayesethukuthele kakhulu waze waligwinya ishongololo. Kuthe uNkukhu eseya ekhaya,nwahlangana noMama Shongololo. UMama Shongololo wabuza, "Uke wayibona ingane yami?" UNkukhu akaphendulanga. UMama Shongololo wakhathazeka. UMama Shongololo wezwa izwi elincane. "Ngelekelele Mama!" kukhala izwi. UMama Shongololo waqalaza walalelisisa, izwi laliqhamuka ngaphakathi enkukhwini. UMama Shongololo wamemeza, "Sebenzisa amandla akho akhethekile mntanami!" Amashongololo akwazi ukukhipha iphunga elibi azenze anambitheke kabi. UNkukhu wazizwa efikelwa ukucanuzela kwenhliziyo. UNkukhu wagonyuluka. Wabuye wagwinya wakhafula. Wathimula, wakhwehlela kaningi. Ishongololo lalinyanyeka! UNkukhu wakhwehlela laze laphuma laqhasha ishongololo elalisesiswini sakhe. UMama Shongololo nengane yakhe banwabuzela bakhuphuka ngesihlahla bayocasha. Kusukela ngalelo langa, izinkukhu namashongololo baba yizitha.

Ibhola. Ibhola lami. Ibhola lami elibomvu. Ibhola lami elikhulu, elibomvu. Ngiyakhahlela. Ngikhahlela ibhola lami. Ngikhahlela ibhola lami elibomvu. Ngikhahlela ibhola lami elibomvu kakhulu! Liphi manje? Liphi ibhola lami? Liphi ibhola lami manje? Liphi ibhola lami elibomvu manje? Naliya. Phezulu. Phezulu esibhakabhakeni. Ngabe lidlule inyanga? Ngubani owaziyo?

Mina nedayinasoli lamisibuka izinyoniesibhakabhakeni. Mina nezinyoni zamisihlangane nemfeneesihlahleni. Mina nemfene yamisidlalenezindlulamithieqgumeni. Mina nezindlulamithizami sakhele inkawuibhola lobumba. Mina nenkawu yaminoGolila sidla obhananazonke izinsuku. Yonke indlela imfeneyami nenkawu besabauMnumzane Fudu. Mina noMnumzane Fudusihamba kancanekancane, siya ekhayanoNkosazana Nyoka. Mina noNkosazanaNyoka siyathandaukusisiza siculeamaculo ecelenikwechibi. Mina nomndeni wamiwonke sihlalangokukhulu ukujabula!

Sonke sahamba sayaendalini yasemakethe . Ubaba wathengelauXolani izibuko ezinhle.Umama wangithengelaikepisi egqamileeluhlazasasibhakabhaka.Ingane yona yatholauswidi. Endleleni eya ekhayakwaba nesivunguvungusomoya.Saphephula ikepisi lami. Ikepisi lami lagaxelaesihlahleni. Ngakhala kakhuluangizange ngidlenesidlo samisakusihlwa. Ngabo lobobusuku,kwaphuma inyangayakhanyisa ngqoekepisini lamielisesihlahleni. Inyanga yayilinganisaikepisi lami yaseimamatheka, namingahleka. Ngosuku olulandelayoukuphuma kwesikoleumama wanginikaikepisi entsha ebomvu.“Ilethwe yinyanga,”kusho umama. Ngalobobusuku minanenyanga sawagqokaamakepisi ethu sahleka.Sasijabule. Ucabanga ukuthi ilangaiyasidinga isigqoko? Qagela yisiphi isigqokoengisigqoke namuhla!

EHlathini laseMiwa, kwakuhlalauMfene owayehlezi ephathekekabi. Njalo mekathola umtwana,uyafa. Izinhlungu zokulahlekelwayizingane zakhe kwenza uMfeneegxuma gxume. Wayegxumelakuleli gatsha, ephindeeyekwelinye , ekhalele phezuluethi " Kwi!Kwi!Kwi!" UMfene wayehlezi ephathekekabi.Waye phatheka kabuhlungukakhulu mekabona ezinyeizimfene nezingane zazo. UMfene ophatheke kabiwayentengantenga esukangapha eyengapha. Wayentengantenga kuleli gatshaephinde eye nakwelinyeigatsha!Izinsuku zadlula uMfenewaqhubeka wakhalangokweqile. Wabesethola umtwana futhi.Wayesenquma ukuthi uzothathaumtwana wakhe eyombekaendleleni khona abadlulayobazomubona bephindebemufisele okuhle. UMfene wehla esukaemagatsheni wayobekaumtwana endleleni. Ngalesosikhathi , kwakukhonaumzingeli owayephindelaekhaya. Wabona ingane eleleeceleni kwendlela. Umzingelo wayithatha inganewayiyisa emzini wakhe.Mekafika endlini umzingeli,izingane zakhe ezintathu zaqalaukudlala ngengane yemfene. Abafana abathathu bacula:"mulahlele phezulu! Mulahlelephansi! Mulahlele kimi!Mulahlele kuye!" Imfeneibilahlelwa kusuka kulenganekuyela kwenye. Besadlala abafana abathathunengane yemfene, umamaMfene wayecashile esihlahleniebabhekile. Wayesaba ukuthimhlawumpe nayo lenganeizoshona njengalezi ezinye. Unkosikazi womzingeli wezawabona izingane zidlala ngayolemfene encane. Washongeliqinile, " Qaphelani!Muletheni la. Nizomulahlelaphansi!" Wamuthathela ezandleni zakheumtwana wemfene,wamubusisa. Mekathi unkosikazi womzingeliubeka phansi umtwana, umamaMfene weza egijimangentokozo. Wayithatha inganeyakhe wayibeka esifubeniwanyamalalela phezuluezihlahleni.

Heeeee! Kukhonainkomo enhle ekhaya. Ayinawo umsila futhiinephondo elilodwa.Ibukeke iyinhle kakhulu. Ikhuluphele, futhiinesisu esikhulu. Inamandla kakhulu lenkomo. Umelusi wayouyithanda kakhulu lenkomo. Uyifundiseukuthi ilalele izwi lakhelodwa. Uma umhlambi uyaemadlelweni uyodla, lenkomo idla yodwa. Le nkomo iyakwaziukulwa, yingakhoezinye izinkomoziyiyeke iyodwa. Abantu bayayazi lenkomo, futhibayayisaba ngobaiyalwa ngalephondolayo elilodwa.Uma ungadibananenkomo enje,ungenzani?

Lona nguMbali. Nguthisha wami. UMbali uhamba ngezinduku. Lona nguMxolisi. Ungumsakazi engimthanda kunabo bonke. UMxolisi unenkinga yamehlo. Lona ngu-Ayanda, umakhelwane wami. U-Ayanda ngumlimi. U-Ayanda akezwa ezindlebeni. Ukhuluma ngezandla. Lona nguSizwe. Ungumdlali webhola ovelele esikoleni sami. USizwe akanazo izandla. Kodwa ufakela iqembu lethu amagoli amaningi!

Emandulo kwakukhona amantombazanyanaamabili ayeyizintandane, amagama awo kungoNana no Nanana. Babehlala endaweniewugwadule. Kulendawo lalomisile kungekhongisho izitshalo ukuthi badle. Babehambaibanga elide uma beyofuna ukudla UNana wayethobile, ezithulelafuthi eyintombazanyanaewusizo. Kodwa uNananawayeziqhenya, engalaleliizeluleko. Wayengenandabanabanye abantu. Bavuka ekuseni ngenye iminikungekho lutho abazoludla.Kwakufanele bedlile, ngakho kebaphuma bahamba ngezindlelaezahlukene ukuyofuna ukudla. Kwakukhona isalukazi igamalaso kungu Nobuntu. Lesalukazisasidume ngokubusisa abantubabe izigwili. Kodwa uNobuntuwayenesifo sochoko. Wonkeumzimba wakhe wawugcweleizilonda. Endleleni uNanana wahlangananalesosalukazi, sathi," kunjanimzukulu wami? Uvelaphi?Uyakuphi?" Wayiphendula yonke imibuzo.Khona manjalo isalukazi sathi,ngifukule ungihambise emziniwami ngizokutshela ukuthiungenzeleni uma sesifikile.uNanana wakhombisaukungahloniphi esalukazini. Waphendula wathi," Ngincamanokufa kunokuthi ngithintelezilonda zakhoezinyanyekayo."Sazithulelaisalukazi samfisela uhambooluhle. UNanana wahamba waze wafikaendaweni esabekayoengajwayelekile. Kuleyondawokwakukhona amasongololo,izinyoka,amacimbi nazozonkeizinambuzane ongazicabanga.UNanana wayesekhathele futhiengenamandla ngoba kwasekuyizinsuku eziningi engadli.Wathi uma ehlala phansizamthelekela izilwanyazanazamudla. Kuyona leyondlela uNana nayewahlangana naleso salukazi.Kodwa yena wajabula umaehlangana noNobuntu ngobakwabe kungumuntu wokuqalaukuhlangana naye ohambenilwakhe olunzima. Ngokunjaloisalukazi sambuza imibuzoefanayo naleyo esayibuzaudadewabo uNanana. UNana yena wavuma ukufukulauNobuntu amhambise kwakhe." Wenze lokho abaningiabahlulekayo ukukwenza,"kusho isalukazi. Khona manjaloisalukazi samnika indukusamtshela ukuthi akabuyeleekhaya, lapho eyofika kukhonazonke izinto azifisayo. UNana wajabula kakhuluwabonga esalukazini, wagijimaeqonde ekhaya. Wafika kubosekunezindlu ezinhle ezintshaezinakhokonke okuhleongakucabanga nokudlaokuningi. Waphenduka isicebiendaweni. Noma eseyisicebiakakhohlwanga udadewabouNanana , wamkhumbulangokuthi amzilele.Wayecabanga ethi, "Umaungalaleli izeluleko zabantuabadala ugcina emlonyeniwendlovu."

Ezweni elibizwa ngeGabon,kwakukhona umuziowawusekugcineni kwehlathi.Phakathi naleli hlathi, emagatsheniaphezulu esihlahleni esikhulukakhulu, kwakuhlala inyoniyekhethelo ngempela – inyonieyayikwazi ukunisa imvula. Kusukela kudala abantu,babebagcina lenyoni ithokozile.Babegcina isinkwa esisele, izithelonobisi olusha lukakhukhunathi.Njalo ngemuva kwesonto nomakwamasonto amabili ithimbalabantu basemzini lalihambisa lezizidlo ezimnandi ehlathini. Umasebezibeke phansi komuthi,omunye wabo wayedlala isitolotoloesidlalwa ngezithupha. Ngemuva kwesikhashana nje inyoniyayindiza yehlele phansi ukuze idle,iphuze. Uma isiqedile yayiqala iculeiculo elimnandi kakhulu. Yenzalokho nje iphakamise amaphiko ayoanombala oluhlazaokwesibhakabhaka akhazimulayo,kungakapheli nemizuzu emingaki,yayiqala ukuna imvula. Lokhu kwaqhubeka nokwenzekaiminyaka eminingi. Ngenxa yokuthiimvula yayina njalo, izitshalozazikhula kakhulu, futhi kunokudlaokuningi emzini. Kodwa izintozaqala ukushintsha kancanekancane. Kwenzeka-ke ukuthiabantu basemzini bahlalebexakekile ngokuthile baqalaukungayinaki inyoni enisa imvula.‘Lizona vele,' kusho bona.‘Sekuyisikhathi sokuthi siyekeukutotosa lesi siwula senyoniendala!' Kodwa abantu babenza iphutha.Ngesikhathi beyeka ukunakekelainyoni, nemvula nayo yayekaukuna. Izitshalo zaqala ukusha zasezifa, nezilwane zazaca futhi zababuthakathaka. Noma kunjaloakekho umuntu emzini owayaehlathini ukuyopha inyoni eyayinisaimvula ukudla. Manje basemetasatasa bonke bezama ukutholaimali yokuthenga ukudlaedolobhaneni eliseduze. Ngelinye ilanga elalishisa kakhulu, intombazanyana ebizwangoKhethi yanquma ukuya ehlathini ngemuva kokuphumakwesikole. ‘Okungenani kuzobe kupholile laphaya phakathi,'ezicabangela. Wahamba, wahamba, waze wafika esihlahleni esideokwakuhlala kuso inyoni enisa imvula. UKethi wabuka phezuluesihlahleni. Ngokuphazima kweso wakhumbula ukuthi ugogowakhe wayaye ahambe kanjani naye beze ehlathini bezophainyoni ukudla ngesikhathi esemncane kakhulu. UKethi wavulaisikhwama sakhe sesikole wase ekhipha ucezu lwesinkwaolwalusele esidlweni sakhe sasemini. Walubeka phansingokucophelela ucezu lwesinkwa. njengoba wayengaphathangaisitolotolo, wacula iculo elidala ayelazi empilo yakhe yonke.  Kwezwakala umsindo omkhulu,inyoni enhle eluhlaza yehlaemagatsheni angephezukwekhanda likaKethi yase iqalaukudla isinkwa. Lapho inyoniseyiqedile ukudla, yavula umlomowayo yase icula amanothiayingcwenga ambalwa, amanothiaphezulu. Yase iphakamisaamaphiko ayo akhazimulayo,kusenjalo uKethi wezwa ukudumakwezulu. Ngesikhathi efika ekhaya,kwase kuqalile ukuna amathonsiamakhulu emvula ayepholisaisibomvu esishisa kakhulu. UKethi wayejabule kakhulu, kwaze kwaba yilapho esetsheleabazali bakhe ukuthi kwenzekeni. ‘Ungazobheda la!' kuthethaunina. ‘Akusekho umuntu okholelwa ekutheni leya nyoniiphathelene nokuna kwemvula!'‘Uqinisile umama wakho,' kusho ubaba kaKetti. ‘Sesinqamukilemanje isomiso futhi izinto sezizohamba kahle. Ungamosi isinkwaesimnandi upha leya nyoni endala enomhobholo ukudla futhi!'Noma uKethi engazange aphikisane nabazali bakhe, wazitshelaukuthi benza iphutha. ‘Ukuba uGogo ubesaphila,' ekhulumayedwa, ‘ubezongikholwa!' Ugogo kaKethi wayeshone eminyakeniembalwa eyedlule. Into eyodwa uKethi ayesele nayo isitolotoloesindala sagogo wakhe.  Kwadlula amasonto amabilikungasekho mvula. Zaqala ukushafuthi izitshalo, zaqala nokuvelakakhulu ngaphandle nezimbambozezilwane ezilambile. Ilanga lashisangokungabi naluzweloesibhakabhakeni esiluhlazaesikhazimulayo. ‘Anginandabanokuthi bathini!' kucabanga uKethi.‘Sidinga imvula. Ngizopha inyoniukudla futhi kusasa!' Ngakho ekuseni kakhulu osukwiniolulandelayo, ngemuva kokuthathaucezu lwesinkwa kanyenenkeshezana yamajikijolo abomvuekhishini, uKethi wa phuma endliniengabonwa muntu. Waqala uhambolwakhe oluya phakathi nehlathi.Akazanga ukuthi noyisewayesevukile naye. Ngesikhathiebona lokho okwakwenziwaindodakazi yakhe, wabona ukuthiyayiyopha inyoni enisa imvulaukudla futhi, ‘Ngizofundisa le nganeengezwa isifundo!' ekhulumayedwa ngokuthukuthela. Wahlwithaumnsalo nomcibisholo wakhewalandela uKethi ngokuthula ukuyaehlathini. Ngesikhathi inyoni indizela phansi ukuze idle ukudla uKettiayeyibekele khona, uyise waphakamisa umnsalo wakhe waseededela umcibisholo wakhe . Umcibisholo wandiza waqonda ngqoenhliziyweni yenyoni. Inyoni yakliwula ukukliwula okuvalaizindlebe. Ethukile, uKethi waphenduka – wabona uyise ewelaphansi, eseshonile. UKethi wadazuluka wase ephenduka – wabonaumcibisholo uwa emzimbeni okhazimulayo wenyoniungayilimazanga. Inyoni, eyayingalimele, yase indizela phezuluegatsheni eliphezulu kunawo wonke esihlahleni.  UKethi wagijima waphuma ehlathinieshaqeke kakhulu. Zonke izilwanenabo bonke abantu ayebabonababelele phansi beshonile. Inhliziyoyakhe ishaya ngamandla, wagijimawaze wafika ekhaya. Ngokusheshawathola isitolotolo sikagogo wakhe.‘Leli ukuphela kwethembaenginalo!' ecabanga. ‘Idiniwe inyonienisa imvula. Kumele ngiyijabulisefuthi! KUMELE NGIKWENZE lokhu!' Ngemuva kwesigamu sehora,uKethi wayesebuyile phansikwesihlahla esikhulu. Umzimbawakhe wawumfoma umjuluko futhiwayenephika. Ebangenielingengakanani ukusukela kuyenakwakulele umzimba kayise oshonile.UKethi waphenduka ngokushesha,izandla zakhe zivevezela, waqalaukudlala isitolotolo. Wadlala,wadlala, kwaze kwaba buhlunguiminwe yakhe. Ekugcineni, lokho ayekufunaukudlula yonke into emhlabenikwenzeka. Yehlela phansi inyonisengathi akuzange kwenzeke lutho.Inyoni yadla amanye amajikijoloayesephansi yase icula amanothiambalwa. Kwathi ngesikhathi uKethieqhubeka nokudlala, inyoniyaphakamisa amaphiko ayo ...UKethi wezwa kukhonaokuhwashazayo ngemuva kwakhe. Kwakunguyise owayesevukile.‘Ngiyaxolisa!'washo ephindelelaenyonini enkulu eluhlaza. Welulelaisandla indodakazi yakhe basebehamba kancane bebuyela emzini.Kwase kuvuke bonke abantunezilwane emzini. Izakhamuzi zasemzini zabanomhlangano ngalobo busuku.Zonke zavumelana ukuthi zifundeisifundo esibaluleke kakhulu. Kantikusukela ngalolo suku, akudlulanganesonto elilodwa kungazange kubekhona uhambo olukhethekilelokuyoyipha ukudla inyoni eyayinisaimvula.

Ngolunye usuku injaencane yayidlala ibhola. Yabona ikati.Yathi,"Sawubona katielincane. Ngingadlalanawe?" Ikati elincanelathi, "Ngingadlalanawe." Ngingadlalanawe ibhola lakho?" "Yebo", kusho injaencane."Ibhola elibomvuleli. Ngizokhahlelelakuwe bese wenaulishaye libuyele kimi." Khona manjaloabangani ababili baqalabadlala ibhola.Inja encane yathi,"Ngiyathanda ukudlalanawe. Kumnandi.Ungumngani omuhle." Ibhola elikhuluelibomvu laphonsekangale kodonga. Ikatielincane laqalaukukhala."Asisenalo ibholaesizodlala ngalo." "Ngiyathanda ukudlalaibhola elikhuluelibomvu";kusho ikatielincane.Ikati elincane laqalalakhala lakhala futhi. "Ngizolilanda ibhola,"kusho inja encane,yeqela ngale kodonga. Ngokushesha yabeisibuye nalo ibhola.Ikati elincane lajabulelaukuthi ibhola selibuyile.Abangani ababilibadlala,badlala. Inja encane yathi,"Woza endlini yamisizobuka incwadiyezithombe."Encwadini yezithombe,babona inja encaneidlala ibhola nekatielincane!

Kwakukhona ilizwe elikude.Abantu bakhona babehlalaezindlini ezincane behlalebejabule. Emva kweminyaka,bazithola bengathokozilengenxa yezilwane zasendleezazifika zibesabise. Lezizilwane zazifika zidleizitshalo zize zithathenabantwana abancane zibalekenabo. Kwakungasesiyo indawoephephile neze; kodwa kebabengayaphi? Umndeni owodwa wathola isulokuyohlala entabeni. Kwakululaukuthola ukudla khona. Kwakumila izitshalo phakathinamatshe.Ihlanze lamila eqeleni legquma.Kwakunonogwaja kanyenezinyoni ababengazidla. Eminye imindeni yabona ukuthibahlezi kahle laba abahlalaentabeni.“Imnandi impilo laphayaintabeni,” kusho indoda ehlalaentabeni. "Nani kumelenizohlala khona.” Ngokushesha neminye imindeniyashiya amakhaya ayoyanyukela entabeni . Umndeningamunye wathola umgede,abafika bahlala kuwobathokomala futhi baphepha. Ngokushesha izingane zabesezikwazi ukugibela amatshe,nokukha izithelo ezihlahleni.Basebekwazi ukushibekaezihlahleni njengezinkawu. Kancane kancane izintozashintsha. Izingane zangabezisakhuluma kodwa zase ziqaleukubhonga . Abazali babonanaamakhala abo ekhula, bemilanoboya. Behamba ngezandlakanye nezinyawo. Njalo uma bebukanababebonana ukuthi amazinyoabo ayakhula. Bashintsha baba izidalwaezintsha ezazingakaze zibonwe,baphenduka izimfene. Baphila kahle isikhathi esidebeyizimfene ezikhululekile.Bayeka ukugijimisa onogwajanezinyoni. Bagcina bekhohliwe nokuthi kuhanjwa kanjani. Bayekaukukhuluma nokugqoka izingubo ngoba imilenze yaboyayimide futhi inoboya obumnyama. Kodwa babesakhumbula ukuthibabengabantu. Babebukanaamakhala amade bahlekane. Loyo owayehlekwa waye gxumagxuma ukudinwa.Kwahamba isikhashanabangakwazi ukuhlala ndawonyengenxa yokuchwensana.Umndeni ngamunye wahlukana. Yingakho nje nanamuhla izimfene zingaphili njengesizwe sezimfene kodwangamaqoqana amancane.

Ngibonani ngamehlo ami. Owesifazane okhulelwe ebambelele Umphakathi wamamukela ukuthi Ngabo lobo busuku wezwakala Wabeletha umntwana oyimbongolo. Sizokwenzenjani? Abantu besho bemangala. Babaleka bonke abantu. "Ngizokwenzenjani ngalomntwana oyimbongolo?" Kucabanga lo wesifazane. Ekugcineni wazibophezela ukumthanda Umntwana oyimbongolo wakhula Umama wakhe waphatheka Umntwana umbongolo wabaleka Umbongolo wazizwa enomzwangedwa,elambile futhi ekhathele. Wagcina ezumekile. Waphaphama sekumi indoda Indoda yamthatha umbongolo Esekhulile umbongolo, indoda Ngolunye usuku banyukela Umbongolo waphaphama Umbongolo wayekhathazekile. Waphindela Umbongolo wayehamba ezibuza, Ngabe nguye umama wami lo. Wamthola umama wakhe,bahlala kahle ndawonye. Lapho umama wayegibela kumntwana wakhe bazulazule endaweni yangakubo.

Kwabe kungumshado wokuqalaemndenini wakwa Buthelezi, kantiuThandeka wayengakaze ajabulengalendlela empilweni yakhe.“Ngizoba yimpelesi kaSibongile,ngizogqoka ingubo nezicathuloezintsha!” ekhuluma nezinkukhuzakhe. UThandeka wazitshela konkeizinkukhu zakhe.Ubaba wakhe wayemthengeleizinkukhu ngosuku lwakhelokuzalwa. Wayezithanda kakhulu. “Susa lezinkukhu zakho ezingcolilelapha Thandeka!” ,kumemezaumama wakhe. “Angifuninokuzibona eduze kwetendelomshado.” URefiloe wazisusa izinkukhu zakheeduze kwethende.“Sukani lapha ziphukuphuku.Angifuni nidliwe emshadwenikaSibongile.” “Uma uthe lona kuzobayindumezulu engakaze yabonwakwaButhelezi yomshado,” kushouThandeka etshela izinkukhu zakhe.“Futhi uthe ngizosizaamantombazane asekhulilengokupheka.”Izinkukhu azizange zibe nandabanayekusho.“Thandeka!” ebizwa ngumamawakhe ngaphakathi endlini. “Shiyalezonkukhu zakho uze uzongisiza laemabhodweni!” Umama kaThandeka wayeziqhenya kakhulu ngendlu yakhe futhiwayefuna yonke into ihambe ngohlelo ngomshado. Wahlanzaumuzi wakhe ewukhuculula, epholisha yonke into.Eseqedile kwabe kungekho ngisho ukungcola okuncane yonkeindawo.Izinkukhu zalunguza emnyango wangaphambili. “Phumani,”kuthetha umama kaThandeka. “Phumani la nezinyawo nemilomoengcolile!” UThandeka walandela izinkukhu zakhe.“Umama uqinisile niyaphoxa,” exwayisa izinkukhuzakhe. UThandeka wathi ukuthula isikhashanaecabanga. Maduzane wamamatheka wase ethi,“Nginombono omuhle.”Wahamba wayothatha ibhakede walifaka amanzi.UThandeka wathwala kanzima ezama ukubambaizinkukhu zazingacabangi ukuthi ukugezwa kungabaisu elihle. UThandeka wabamba inkukhuyokuqala wayifaka ebhakedeni.Yakhala inkukhu ishaya amaphiko.“Yima sphukuphuku ndini ngekekuthathe isikhathi,” kushouThandeka.Ngesikhathi uThandeka eseyesulaikhala namehlo yagobisa ikhandaebhakedeni. “Asikho isikhathi sokulala la ,” kushouThandeka. Wayinyakazisaeyivuthulula ukuze kuphumeamanzi."Uma ungavuki manje ngizokufakaentweni ezokomisa kahle", eshoeyibeka otshanini ukuze itholweilanga yome kahle.Inkukhu yalala yanganyakaza. UThandeka wazigeza zonke izinkukhu zakhe.Ngayinye yayiyetha igobise ikhanda ngaphambikokuba aqede ukuyigeza.Wazilalisa ngokulandela otshanini ukuze zome.Akukho neyodwa eyake yanyakaza ngisho usiba nje.“Ngizoziyeka zithi ukulalaIa kancane,” kucabangauRefiloe wasuka wayobheka ukudla. Umama Ngwenya kanye nomamaMtshali kwakungo mamncanebaThandeka. Babengazwani.Kwase kuphele isikhathiesingangenyanga belungiselelaumshado kaSibongile, kodwababengacabangi ngisho ukugibelaitekisi eyodwa. UmaNgwenya wazibona izinkukhu zikaThandekazinekiwe ukuze zome. “Ngazitholela into engizoyidlakwami,” ekhuluma yedwa.Wathatha itshali lakhe wazisonga zonke izinkukhu,akukho neyodwa eyake yanyakaza.“Ya”,esho emamatheka. “Ngizozibeka la umaMtshalingeke azibone khona.” Wabe esezishuthekeekhoneni eduze kwamathanga. Umama umaMtshali wacabanga ukuziphekela ithanga. Wathathaindishi enkulu waqonda engadini.Esengengadini wabona umaNgwenya eshutheka okuthile eduzekwamathanga.Waqonda khona waphenya kwaphuma izinkukhueziyisishangalombili.“Hhayi bo!” ekhala egxumagxuma ukwethuka.”“Oh, nihlanzekile futhi nibahle! Senilungele ukungena bhodweni.Konje ngizonifihlaphi nje zithandwa zami?” kuzibuza umaMtshali.“Kumele ngithole indawo elungile esho ezula zula endlini. Ngiyazingizonibeka phezu kwendlu.” UmaMtshali wagibela odongwenilasengadini wazibeka phezu kwendlu ngokulandelana. Ngosuku olulandelayo kwabe sekuwusuku lomshado. UThandekawaba owokuqala kwabavukayo eyobheka izinkukhu zakhe. Wabonaukuthi akukho nkukhu esalele otshanini.“Kufanele ukuba zome kahle manje, ngiyathemba zisayofuna isidlosasekuseni.” Umshado kaSibongile wawumuhle kakhulu. Izinkukhuazizange zize ukuzoba nomakoti ngezikhathi edansaebaleni.Akubanga khona ngisho eyodwa ecasulilengesikhathi ikhwaya icula ngamazwi amnandi.Izinkukhu bezisazilalele phezu kwendlu ngesikhathiumfundisi eshumayela.Azizange zivuthulule ngisho izinsiba ngesikhathiizingulube nomkhulu kaThandeka behona kakhuluumfundisi eshumayela.Akubanga khona ngisho unyawo lwenkukhungesikhathi kulunguza izimvu ethendeni, zicishezigingqa ikhekhe lomshado. Kwabe sekuphakathi nenkulumokababa kamakoti, izinto zaqalaukushintsha phezu kwendlu. Inkukhu yokuqala yandizela phezu kuka umamNgwenya.UmaMsthali wagigitheka eduze kwakhe.Enye inkukhu yandizela phezu kweduku elisha lika mamNgwenya.Abantu ababehlezi etafuleni eliseduzane bazama ukuzibambaukuhleka.Amantombazane ayeseduze kuka umamNgwenya abhekisaamakhanda phansi etafuleni. “Ai, aai, aaaaii, he, he, heeeeeeee!”aphela insini.Zonke izinkukhu zakhetha ukulandela lezi ezimbili. Wawungekeusamkhomba umamNgwenya embozwe izinkukhu! Izivakashi zazimemeza ziphelile uhleko.Amadoda ayesebambe izisu efa insini.Abesifazane babegingqika nezitulo behleka.Abafana namantombazane babeze babambane bephelile uhleko.Ogogo base behluleka ukuphefumula ngenxa yokuhleka.Amakhehla ayeze ashaye izinduku zokudondolozela phansi ehleka. Labo mamncane ababili babukana emehlweni bansinsitheka.UmamMtshali wavula umlomo wakhe kakhulu wahleka.UmamNgwenya wabhekisa ikhanda lakhe emuva izihlathi zazezaqinelana ukuhleka.UThandeka akazange akholwe!Izivakashi zavumelana ngokuthi lona kwabe kungumshadooyedlula yonke eyake yaba khona eMalealea.“Nina ninenhlanhla!” kusho uThandeka ekhuluma nezinkukhuzakhe ngesikhathi ezidushela esilugwini sazo kusihlwa. “Umamauthe ngeke esanenza isidlo sakusihlwa.”“Kodwa bhekani nje senigcole kanjani futhi. Ngicabanga ukuthikuzomele ngiphinde nginigeze kusasa!”

Umphakathi wakubo Nkanyezi wawusulindele ukungena kwentwasahlobo. Maduzane nje, izakhamuzi zase zilungisela ukugubha umkhosi wokungena kwesikhathi sonyaka esisha, okwabe kuyintwasahlobo. UNkanyezi, njengomunye wesakhamuzi, naye wayewulangazelela lo mkhosi. Kwakuzoba wusuku oluhlukile kunazo zonke ezinye izinsuku. Ngelinye ilanga wathi uNkanyezi ezihlalele nje, wezwa abantu abadala ababili bexoxa ngalo mkhosi. "Abantu balapha esigodini saseNdlovini abasenalo isasasa lokugubha umkhosi wokwethwasa kwehlobo," kuphawula omunye wabo. "Singawugubha kanjani umkhosi wokwethwasa kwehlobo, endaweni lapho abantu sebakhohlwa nokuthi lugujwa kanjani lolu suku?" kubuza lo omunye. Yamkhathaza uNkanyezi le nkulumo yabantu abadala. Khona manjalo wezwakala esezibuza, eziphendula. "Singasikhuthaza kanjani isizwe esesiphelelwe umdlandla wokugubha umkhosi wentwasahlobo?" Emva kokucanga ngalesi simo, wabe esethatha isinqumo, wathi, "Kufanele ngithole ukuthi ngabe salahleka kuphi njengesizwe. Kufanele ngiphume, ngiyothola loko okwasilahlekela thina sizwe saseNdlovini, ngibuye nesu lokubuyisa umdlandla nogqozi lokubungaza emphakathini wakithi." Abadala baseNdlovini bamnika zonke izibusiso uNkanyezi ngohambo ayezoluthatha. Bamnika nesikhwama ayezofaka kuso loko ayezokuthola kuwusizo. Wayenakho ukwesaba, kodwa futhi ekholelwa ukuthi uhambo lwakhe luzoba yimpumelelo. Nempela lwaqala uhambo lwakhe. Wahamba usuku lonke. Wayekhuphuka ehla imimango. Wayewela umfula omkhulu, ecaca eqa amadwala ayingozi. Wahamba njalo edlula amathafa waze wayofika ngaphansi kwezintaba ezibomvu. Kwathi kuhlwa, uNkanyezi wayefika kwesinye sezigodi esakhelene nesaseNdlovini. Imizi yakhona ihlotshiswe ngemibala angakaze ayibone ngaphambilini. Wacazela abadala bendawo ngohambo lwakhe. Omunye wabesifazane walesi sigodi wanika uNkanyezi isipho, wathi kuye, "Sikunika lo pende ngothando ukuze ubuyise ukukhanya nokubukeka emphakathini wakini." UNkanyezi wathatha lesi sipho, wabonga, wasifaka esikhwameni sakhe. Ekuseni ngakusasa, waqhubeka nohambo lwakhe, enokujabula. Kwasa okungaliyo, waqhubeka nohambo lwakhe, ehamba ethubeleza phakathi kwamahlathi. Kwaqala ukuhlwa futhi, akabe esabona kahle ngenxa yobumnyama. Yize wayengasaboni kahle, izindlebe zakhe zona zayizwa yonke imisindo. Wezwa umsindo wokukhala kwezigubhu. "Kwamnandi loku engikuzwayo, mangiphakamise izinyawo." Ngempela wahambela phezulu, eya ngalapho kukhala ngakhona izigubhu. Ubumnandi balo msindo babuletha umfutho ezinyaweni zakhe ezikhathele. Wahamba wazibona esefikile esigodini saseBhubesini, lapho isizwe sakhona sasihleli sizungeze umlilo, sishaya iszigubhu, sicula. Wayengakaze ezwe umculo omnandi ngaleya ndlela. Nakhona wafike walwethula udaba lwakhe kubantu abadala bendawo. Wabatshela ngenhloso yohambo lwakhe efuna ukubuyisa ugqozi lokugubha imikhosi yendalo emphakathini wakubo. Ekuseni, induna yaseBhubesini yambiza uNkanyezi. Yabe seyithi kuye, "Mtanami, nasi isigubhu sekhethelo esikupha sona. Lesi sigubhu sikunika iculo elisha lapho usishaya." UNkanyezi wabonga wanconcoza. Wasithatha wasifaka esikhwameni sakhe. Waqhubeka nohambo lwakhe ejabulele lesi sipho esikhipha umculo abantu badanse. Ngosuku lwesithathu lohambo lwakhe, iphunga elimnandi lenyama lwaconsisa amathe. Lamdonsa leli phunga laye lamfikisa la liphuma ngakhona. "Kuyabuswa lapha, abantu bemi eduze kogalaza bamabhodwe, inyama iyaphuphuma, iphunga lithi lunga mphimbo, uzogwinya." Wayeqala ngqa uNkanyezi ukuzwa ukudla okumnandi ngale ndlela. Emva kokuba ephiwe naye ukudla wazenelisa, wabe esebatshela abadala ngenhloso yohambo lwakhe. Wayefuna izindlela angabuyisa ngazo ugqozi lokugubha imikhosi kubantu bakubo. Ngakusasa abapheki bendawo bamnika inhlanganisela yabo yezithako eziyimfihlo. Bamnika bethi kuye, "Uyabona ndodakazi, ngalezi zithako, bayodla basuthe, beneliseke kwelakini. Ngalesi sipho, uyopheka ukudla okumnandi." UNkanyezi wabonga wanconcoza, wathatha isipho sakhe, wasifaka esikhwameni sakhe. Manje kwase kumcacela ukuthi usenako konke ayekudinga. Wayesethole amandla nomfutho ukuphindela ekhaya, esizweni saseNdlovini. Wathi efika ekhaya, izakhamuzi zaqoqana, zamzungeza zifuna ukuzwa ngohambo lwakhe. Wabe esevula isikhwama sakhe, wabakhombisa izipho ayephiwe zona ngezinye izizwe. Umphakathi waseNdlovini wazijabulela zonke lezi zipho. Izipho ayephiwe zona ngezinye izizwe kanye nesibindi sakhe uNkanyezi, kwaletha inguquko esizweni saseNdlovini. Isizwe sabona ngamanye amehlo, sabuyelwa umdlandla, sacula sajabula. Ngaleyo ndlela ugqozi lokubungaza imikhosi lwabuya esigodini saseNdlovini.

UTingi wayehlala nogogo wakhe. UTingi wayejwayele ukwalusa izinkomo nogogo wakhe. Ngelinye ilanga kwafika amasosha. Amasosha athatha izinkomo ahamba nazo. UTingi nogogo wakhe babaleka bayocasha. Bacasha ehlathini kwaze kwaba sebusuku. Abaye abuya amasosha. Ugogo wafihla uTingi ngaphansi kwamaqabunga. Elinye lamasosha lamnyathela kodwa wathula. UTingi nogogo baphuma sebebona ukuthi kuphephile. Banyonyoba bagoduka.

Emandulo kwakukhona imbuzi, igama layo kwakungu Bhoklolo. UBhoklolo-ke wayeyinkosi yezilwane nezinyoni ezifuyiwe emakhaya ngaleso sikhathi. Wayephila impilo emnandi, ezicabangela yena isikhathi esiningi. Langa limbe, uBhoklolo njengenkosi, wamema zonke izilwane nezinyoni ukuba zize emhlanganweni ayewubizile. "Zihlobo zami, nginibize ngoba ngibe nephupho," kusho uBhoklolo. Izilwane nezinyoni athula zathi cwaka zinanela le nkulumo yenkosi yazo. Aqhubeke uBhoklolo athi, "Ngiphuphe kungasekho kudla namanzi ezweni lethu. Izihlobo zethu eziningi bese zifile." Zathi izilwane zingezwa ngaleli phupho, zakhathazeka kakhulu. Kwezwakala ikati selibuza, "Pho, sizokwenzenjani?" Isikhukhukazi nedada bathi bona banecebo. "Yilowo nalowo kithina makalethe ukudla sizokugcina lapha enqolobaneni yenkosi ukuze sibe nokudla." Zonke izilwane zavumelana nalo mbono. UBhoklolo inkosi yabe seyishaya umthetho yathi, "Tholani izintambo enizobopha ngazo lezo zilwane ezizohluleka ukuletha ukudla enqolobaneni. Lezo zilwane niyoziletha lapha kimi." Okudidayo, emva kwalo mhlangano kwabe sekuvela ukuthi isikhathi sokukhethwa kwenye inkosi ezobusa izilwane ezifuyiwe sabe sesiseduze. Izilwane zonke zahlangana, zakhetha inkosi entsha, zakhetha ikati njengenkosi esizophatha. Waphatheka kabi uBhoklolo, akazange amukele enhliziyweni yakhe ukuthi ikati yilo elizoba inkosi yezilwane. Wezwakala esethi, "Yimina inkosi yezilwane lapha, ayikho enye inkosi, futhi NGEKE ngalalela esinye isilwane mina!" Izilwane zawugcina umthetho wokuletha ukudla enqolobaneni yenkosi. Zahambisa ukudla enkosini entsha - IKATI. UBhoklolo yena akazange ahambise lutho enqolobaneni. Khona manjalo inkomo yayisibeka umbono wayo, "Ngesikhathi uBhoklolo eyinkosi, besimhlonipha sonke. Manje, yena akasafuni ukuhlonipha inkosi yethu entsha. Sizomenzenjani, madoda?" Zonke izilwane zazithukuthele kabi isenzo sikaBhoklolo. Kwezwakala zikhononda, "Uyazi uBhoklolo ucabanga ukuthi uhlukile noma ungcono kunathi." Kwaqhamuka inja isola uBhoklolo, imbuzi seyithi, "Ngangimsiza eseyinkosi, ngingalali ebusuku, ngimgada, ngimsiza. Manje usezibona ukuthi ungcono kunathi." Nemvu nayo yanezezela, "Mina ngangimsiza ngovolo wami wembathisa izingane azange zigodole." Nengulube nayo yaqhamuka ibeka eyayo indaba. "Ngesikhathi eyinkosi, wayetshela abangani bakhe ukuthi mina ngidla kakhulu. Okumangazayo, ngangihlala ngisebenza emasimini akhe njalo, ngihlakulela ummbila wakhe namabele. Namhlanje, ngoba engaseyona inkosi, akafuni ukusebenza." Imvu yona yathi nje, "Utheni uBhoklolo ngawe ngulube? Uthe udla kakhulu? Ubecabanga ukuthi uyohlala eyinkosi ungunaphakade?" Yaqhubeka imvu yathi, "UBhoklolo yena, kufanele azi nje ukuthi akaseyona inkosi. Angazi kungani ezibona ebaluleke ngale ndlela." Zonke izilwane zamane zafa insini, kuyileso naleso sithi, "He! He! He! Soke sibone." Zonke zavumelana ngokuthi uBhoklolo yena uzokuhambisa ukudla enkosini entsha, ethanda engathandi. Inkosi entsha, ikati, yambizela esigodlweni sayo uBhoklolo. Ngesikhathi ezinye izilwane seziyomlanda uBhoklolo ngoba inkosi yayimfuna, zamthola eqhwakele esitulweni sakhe. Inkomo yamtshela ukuthi inkosi, ikati, itheni. "Ubani? Mina? Angeke ngiye kuleyo nkosi yenu. Yimina inkosi. Uma uyinkosi, uyinkosi njalo," kuphendula imbuzi, uBhoklolo. Imvu yasukumela phezulu, yasho ithatha intambo iyiphakamisela phezulu, yathi, "Bheka lapha wembuzi, uyakubona loku, sizokubopha ngalezi zintambo sikudonsele enkosini." Kwasondela inkomo yayigaxa embuzini intambo yaphinde yayibophela emsileni wayo. Yasho idonsa ngamandla. Ezinye izilwane zona, zazikhuthaza inkomo lapho idonsa. Uyothi wabonani, izimvu, amadada, izinja izingulube, wena zinkukhu zinanela lapho inkomo idonsana nembuzi. Zonke zazimemeza ngezwi linye, "Hambisa le mbuzi enenkani enkosini yethu. Kuzophela yonke le nkani yayo." Nanamhlanje, uye ubone izimbuzi uma zidonswa ziyazimelela, zidaze inkani. Mhlawumbe zisacabanga ukuthi uzidonsela enkantolo yenkosi yezilwane ukuyothetha icala layo.

Ubaba uthanda iphalishilempuphu. Mina ngithanda amacornflakes. Ubaba uthanda ikofi. Mina ngithanda ubisi. Ubaba uthanda amaapula. Ngithandaamawolintshi. Ubaba uthanda isinkwakanti. Mina ngithandaisinkwa esigazingiwe. Kodwa sobabili nobabasithanda amagwinya.

Ngiyamthanda uthisha wami. Ubukeka kahle. Ufundisa kahle, unomusa nesineke. Namuhla, uzeluke kahle kakhulu izinwele zakhe. Futhi ufake nobuhlalu obunemibala emihle kakhulu. Buka ubuhlalu bakhe, buluhlaza, bumhlophe, bubomvu, buphuzi. Mama, nami ngicela ungeluke ngifane nothisha. Ukuba sengimdala, ngabe ngiyabufaka nami ubuhlalu. Nami ngiyafisa ukuba muhle ngifane nothisha wami!

UTasneem wayeyintombazaneenhle, futhi ugogo wakhe enomusa. Ugogo wakhe wayechitha isikhathisakhe enzela uTasneem izigegeezinhle. UTasneem wayethandaukugqoka izigege zakhe. Amanye amantombazane endaweniayenomona ngesigegesikaTasneem. Babezibuza ukuthibangamkhumula kanjani isigegesakhe. Kodwa kwakungelulaukukhumula izingubo zakhe umaezigqokile. Ngolunye usuku amantombazaneammema ukuthi bahambebayobhukuda emfuleni oseduze.Osebeni lomfula bonke bakhumulaizigege zabo ukuze zingabimanzi.Bagxumela emanzini babhukudaisikhashana. Uma sebeqedile ukubhukuda, enyeyamantombazane eyayinomonakakhulu yathatha isigegesikaTasneem yasiphonsa emanzini,eduze nendawo ehlala inyokaenkulu. Emva kwaloko wonkeamantombazane ahamba amshiyalapho ekhala uTasneem. Inyoka enkulu yezwa okhalayo,yashibilika yaphuma emanziniyabona intombazane enhle,yayigwinya kanye nesigege sayo. Ngenhlanhla inyokaayikuthandanga ukunambithekakwesigege sakhe. Yasiphimiselangaphandle kanye naye uTasneem.Bawela ngaphandle osebenilomfula, bemanziswe amatheenyoka anuka kabi abaphume naboesiswini senyoka. UTasneem onukayo wagqokaisigege sakhe esinukayo, wagijimawaya ekhaya kubazali bakhewayecula ethi:Mama, ngivulele yimina, ngiyanuka;Mama, ngivulele yimina, ngiyanuka;Nginuka kabi kakhuluUmama wakhe walizwa iculo likaTasneem, wagijima waphumelaphandle, naye wacula wathi:Hamba la uyanuka.Hamba la uyanuka,Hamba la unuka kabi. Tasneem waphoxeka kakhulu.Wagijima waya endlinikamalumekazi nomalume wakhe,bamuzwa ecula:Ngivuleleni umnyango, ngiyanuka.Ngivuleleni umnyango, ngiyanuka,Nginuka kabi kakhulu.Baphumela ngaphandle kwendlu bacula njengoba umama wakheeculile:Hamba la uyanuka,Hamba la uyanuka,Hamba la unuka kabi. UTasneem wayesesalelwe indlukagogo wakhe kuphela . Inhliziyoyakhe yayibuhlungu. Wacabangaukuthi akukho muntu omthandayongenxa kwephunga elibi ayesenalo. Kodwa ugogo wakhe akazangeamxoshe wamgeza, kanye nesigegesakhe, wenza konke kwanukakamnandi. UTasneem wahlala nogogo wakheiminyaka eminingi. Ngelinye ilangaindodana yenkosi eyisicebi yacelaukumshada. Abazali baka Tasneem bezwangomshado, bese bamcela ukuthiabuyele ekhaya. uTasneem wazikhumbula ukuthiwayenuka kabi kanjani,wakhumbulaukuthi bamphatha kabi kanjani.Wabatshela ukuthi angeke abuyeleekhaya."Abazali kufanele babathandeabantwana babo," kusho yena,"noma benuka kabi." UTasneem wacela ugogo wakheukuthi azohlala nabo emziniwendodana yenkosi eyisicebi. Ukhulu wakhe wayejabule kakhulu,ephatheke kahle futhi ezizwa ebalulekile. Ugogo owayenomusanentombazane enukayo

Lena yindaba yomgcininesikhungo sezilwaneeziyizintandane. Inyanga edlulekwakuyinyanga ematasatasaesikhungwini.UNomusa ononyaka wabangowokuqala ukufika.Wayezacile futhi elusizi. Kodwa ngokukhuluukushesha uNomusa wavelewaqina.Waqala ukudlalanezinye izilwane. Ngelinye ilangangayo leyo nyanga,kwathi cababaindiza enophephela emhlanekuleso sikhungo. Kundiza enophephelaemhlane kwakunendlovuencane phansi kwenguboyokulala enkulu. UNdiwa wayengaphansikwengubo yokulala.Wayenezinsukuezinhlanu ezelwe.Umgcini wamncelisaibhodlela. Ngobunye ubusuku,wonke umuntuwavuswa ngukufikakuka-Ambiya. U-Ambiyawayenezinyangaezinhlanu.Wayebuthakathakaemva kohambolwakhe olude. Ngenxa yentamoyakhe ende,umgcini kwakufanelealiphakamisele phezuluibhodlela ukuzeakwazi ukumncelisa. Izintandane ezagcina ukufikangaleyo nyangakwakungamawundluayelambile oKopi, noKepi,noKeji. Umgcini nabasizibakhe babezithandazonke izilwane,ngisho nalezoezigangile. Abantu bakulesi sikhungobasebenza kanzima.Bathemba ukuthi ngelinyeilanga izintandane ziyokwaziukuzinakekela ngokwazo.Uma kunjalo ziyokwaziukubuyela endle.

Kudaladala, kwakunenkosi ogama layo kwakunguNdabenhle. Inkosi le yayihlala esigodlweni nendlovukazi kanye nendodakazi yayo, inkosazana ogama layo kwakunguNaledi. UNaledi wayeyinkosazana enhle. Cishe zonke izinsizwa zendawo zazifisa ukuba ziganwe yile nkosazana. Okwakunzima, inkosi uNdabenhle, okunguyise, yayifuna ilobolo elimangazayo ngenkosazana yayo. Eduze nesigodlo kwakuhlala induna, uMtungwa omkhulu. Wayebizwa ngo Mtungwa "omkhulu" ngoba wayehlonishwa yisigodi sonkana. Wayebonisa ulaka kulowo muntu owayengamhloniphi. Inkosikazi yenduna uMtungwa yayisanda kushona, ithathwa yisifo soqhuqho. Manje induna yayisifuna ukuthatha enye inkosikazi. UMtungwa omkhulu waya enkosini uNdabenhle eyozibika ukuthi yena angakhipha ilobolo elingakanani ngenkosazana yenkosi. Babhunga indaba yelobolo lenkosazana nje, umsizi wasesigodlweni, uNelisiwe, uyezwa ukuthi bathini. UNelisiwe wayemkhonzile unkosazana uNaledi. UMtungwa omkhulu wathi yena angathatha uhhafu wengcebo yakhe ayinike inkosi njengelobolobo. Ngasese, kwenziwa amalungiselelo omshado phakathi kwenduna Umtungwa omkhulu nonkosazana uNaledi. Inkosi uNdabenhle wayazi kahle kamhlophe ukuthi indodakazi yakhe ngeke isijabulele lesi sinqumo. Sekusele isonto ngaphahambi kosuku lomshado, umsizi uNelisiwe waqonda kunkosazana Naledi. "Nkosazana yami ethandekayo, ubaba wakho uhlela ukukuganisela induna uMtungwa omkhulu. Loku kuzokwenzeka maduze, evikini elizayo." Kuchaza uNelisiwe. Inkosazana yathuka umhlola, yangazi ukuthi ithini futhi yenzeni. Emva kwesikhashana seyithi, "Mina, ngeke ngiganele induna uMtungwa omkhulu, indoda endala ekhuluphele kanje. Angeke bakubone loko. Kuzomele ngigijimele kuThando abone ukuthi angenzenjani." Phela uThando kwakuyisoka lika Naledi. Ngalobo busuku, uNaledi wanyonyoba weqa esigodlweni. Uma uyise wayengezwa ngaloko wayezothukuthela ngokweqile. Wagijima edlula ihlathi elimnyama, eqa amadwala, imihosha nemihoshana, waze wafika esithandweni sakhe uThando. Wafika ekhathele, elambile, onyiwe. "Hhayi-bo gugu lami, kwenzenjani? Ungathini ukuhamba ibanga elide kangaka wedwa, ebusuku lobu?" kubuza uThando. Wabe esemlandela amanzi okuphuza, wamdedela ukuba ake aphumule. UThando, wayengakwazi ukubeka isiqe phansi ngenkathi esalinde uNaledi ukuba alande indaba. "Ngitshele, sthandwa sami," kusho uThando. UNaledi waphefumulela phezulu, wezwakala esethi, "Ubaba ufuna ukungiganisela induna uMtungwa omkhulu. Angikwazi ukugana leya ndoda embi kanjeya. Thando, noma ngabe umpofu kangakanani, mina ngifuna ukugana wena. Ngikulungele ukuhlupheka. Ngithanda wena qha!" "Kodwa manje nkosazana, mina anginalutho, ukukhokhela ilobolo lakho. Wazi kahle, ngimpofu," kuzikhalela uThando. UNaledi wamphendula wathi, "Ngiyakwazi loko, kodwa nguwe kuphela engingakugana." Wake wathula isikhashana, wabe esethi, "Nginecebo, masigijimele ku Kwanda, indoda le yesikebhe asiweze sibalekele ngale komfula. Ngaleyo ndlela singeqa, ubaba angasitholi." Emuva esigodlweni, inkosi uNdabenhle usetholile ukuthi uNkosazana Naledi usenyamalele. Usetshele izinhloli, nabantu bayo ukuba baphume bayoyifuna inkosazana. Abaqaphi benkosi, amabutho, wonke umuntu wagcwala isiganga kufunwa inkosazana yenkosi, kodwa do! Abazange bayithole inkosazana yenkosi. Babuyela emuva enkosini beyoyitshela ukuthi uNaledi akatholakali. Inkosi yabaphendula ngokucasuka, "Hambani niyocinga ehlathini." Ngesikhathi uThando noNaledi begijimela osebeni lomfula, izulu laqala lashintsha, kwaguqubala, kwaba namafu amnyama. Kwakuza isiphepho esikhulu. UKwanda, indoda yesikebhe wayesabophela isikebhe sakhe ngesikhathi izithandani zifika. UThando wancenga uKwanda ukuba agwedle isikebhe sakhe, abaweze. UKwanda wenqaba, wabachazela ukuthi isiphepho esinamandla sesifikile, kuzoba yingozi ukubaweza. UThando waphikelela echazela uKwanda ukuthi kungani kumele bewelele ngaphesheya. Wafaka isandla sakhe ephaketheni wakhipha igobolondo wanika uKwanda. UKwanda, ezwa indaba yabo, esebona negobolondo elibiza kangaka, wabazwela. Wavuma wagwedla isikebhe wabaweza, yize isimo sezulu sasisibi. Ngokushesha, uKwanda wadonsa isikebhe, bagibela. Wathatha izigwedlo, waqala umsebenzi wagwedla. Kwathi inkosi nenduna befika ngasosebeni lomfula, babona nabaya abantu abathathu esikebheni. Kwabakhanyela ukuthi izithandani zeqile, yizo leziya. Umoya omkhulu waxukuzisa isikebhe, kwaba uKwanda uyehluleka ukusilawula asiqondise isikebke manje. Kwezwakala inkosi isimemeza, "Ndodakazi yami Naledi, ngicela ubuye! Ngiyakuxolela, ngeke nginijezise, wena no Thando." Inkosi yasho sekonakele. Isikebhe saketuka, bobathatu baphonseka emanzini ayenamandla. Bonke baminza. Emva kwalesi sehlakalo, wonke umuntu embusweni wenkosi UNdabenhle wakhululeka ukugana noma ukuganwa yilowo amthandayo, ocebile noma ompofu, inqobo uma bethandana.

Sekuzoshaya izithuba zokudla kwasemini esikoleni samabanga aphansi iSiyafunda. Abanikazi beziphaza esikoleni bazilungiselela ukudayisela izingane ezilambile isidlo sasemini. Umnumzane uMtawung usesike izinkwa zakhe wazehlukanisa ngamakota, useyivule kahle nendawo yesishebo. Amaships ayathoseka azolungela ukudliwa masinyane. UMtawung ufaka ukhezo olugcwele lwe atsha ephekwe wunkosikazi wakhe kuwo wonke amakota olofu bezinkwa. Uthanda ukuqhosha ke umfo lo ngokuthi awakhe amakota ane atsha ngaphakathi nangaphezulu. Esphaza sikabab’uMkhize amaships akhe asezovuthwa nawo, kodwa futhi usasika isinkwa sakhe elungiselela amakota. Ukhathazekile, izinto azimhambeli kahle kulesisiphaza sakhe, “Kwaqala kahle,” ubab’ umkhize ecabanga, “kodwa manje abathengi bami baya ngokuncipha, nokho ngiyonga ngoba ulofu wami ngiwusika izingxenye ezinhlanu esikhundleni sezine.” UJabu no Zodwa bathenga ukudla kwasemini. UZodwa uthenga kubab’ uMkhize, uJabu yena uthenga kubab’ uMtawung ngoba ukholwa wukuthi ikota kabab’ uMtawung inamaships amaningi kanye ne atsha eningi ukwedlula ekabab’ uMkhize. Umugqa uhlala umude kakhulu esphaza sikaMtawung. UZodwa ulinde uJabu, emva kwalokho-ke abangani bahlala ndawonye emthunzini ukuze bazitike ngamakota abo. UZodwa ubona okuthile okumenza agqoloze futhi amise izinhlonze. “Ubukani?” kubuza uJabu. “Ikota yakho! Inkulu kuneyami!” kumemeza uZodwa. Bobabili babukisisa amakota abo. Nangempela ekaJabu inkulu.“Kukhona okungahambi kahle la,” kusho uZodwa. “Ngingemangale ukuthi yiso lesisizathu esenza ukuba isphaza sikabab’ uMkhize singasaphithizeli muva nje.” UJabu uyacabanga okomzuzwana ebese ephendula, “Kahlehle, mina ngithenga kubab’ uMtawung ngoba ukudla kwakhe kunambitheka kangcono. Kodwa futhi ngezwa ezinye izingane zithi zibone ubab’ uMkhize esika ulofu wesinkwa izingcezu ezinhlanu ezilinganayo esikhundleni sokuba asisike amakota.” Ngandlebenye uNomusa uzwa uJabu noZodwa bekhuluma, uba nesifiso sokuzwa ukuthi bathini. Ubabuza ukuthi yini into embi ngokusika ulofu wesinkwa izingcezu ezinhlanu ezilinganayo uma kwenziwa ikota. UZodwa noJabu bamphendula kanyekanye, “Ikota wucezu olulodwa kwizingcezu ezine zolofu wesinkwa!” UNomsa usabukeka edidekile, ngakho-ke uZodwa uyachaza, “Lokhu kusho ukuthi ulofu wesinkwa usikwa izingcezu ezine ezilinganayo. Ngaphandle kwalokho, akuwona neze amakota.” UNomsa uthukuthele ngoba naye uthenga kwabab’ uMkhize. “lomuntu utshontsha isinkwa sethu!” esho ekhulumela phezulu.NoZodwa uthukuthele, futhi usenqume ukubuyela esphaza sikabab’ uMkhize ukuyokhononda. Uqonda khona, ikota yakhe indiza emoyeni. UNomsa uyaphuthuma emva kwakhe. UJabu yena uzilambele ulangazelela ikota yakhe, uyakhononda, usesuka lapho ulandela abangani bakhe. Ubab’ uMkhize uyadumala uma ebona ukuthi lezizingane akusibona abathengi abasha. “Awu san’bonani futhi bantabami, ekhuluma ewunguzela, nginganisiza ngani?”“Bab’ uMkhize, ngikucele ikota, futhi ngakukhokhela imali yekota. Kodwa le akuyona ikota,” kusho uZodwa ekhomba ukudla kwakhe. “Ngifuna ikota yami iphelele noma-ke imali yami ibuye,” esho egcizelela. “Ingabe yiqiniso bab’ uMkhize? Ubusiqola kanti!” kukhala uNomsa. Izingane ezimbadlwana zibalendele ukuya esphaza, manje zilalele lezizinsolo ezivutha amalangabi.Ubab’ uMkhize uphonsa izandla zakhe emoyeni. “Nithini nina ngami?” ekhononda. “Anginjalo mina! Ngifuna niphume niphele esiphaza sami njengamanje.” UZodwa ekhulumela phansi, “Sizotshela wonke umuntu ukuthi wenzani. Lendaba izokwanda njengequbula lomlilo isikole sonke lesi, impela uyosivala lesisphaza sakho. Akekho noyedwa ozozothenga lapha kuwe.”Ubab’ uMkhize wazibuka lezizingane ezintathu ezazingazimisele ukuhlehlela nyovane zimi phambi kwakhe. Waphinde wabuka lenqwaba eyayiya ngokukhula eyayingaphandle kwesphaza sakhe. ““Kulungile,” usesho njalo ekugcineni, “ngizokubuyisela imali yakho.”“Yethembisa futhi ukuthi usuzosika isinkwa izingcezu ezine ezilinganayo,” kukhuluma uJabu ngeqholo elikhulu.Ubab’ uMkhize nangempela wethembisa ukuthi uzokwenzenjalo. Usesusa isikhwehlela emphinjeni wakhe, wasekhulumela phezulu ethi, “Ngiyathembisa futhi ukuthi ngizokongeza i atsha eningi kanye namaships amaningi kumakota ami.” Nangempela ubab’ uMkhize waqala ukongeza amaships ne atsha kumakota akhe ayeyizingcezu ezine zikalofu wesinkwa.Masinyane iningi lezingane zabe sezithenga kuye, isphaza sakhe saqala sagcwala. Wagcina esekwazi ngisho nokuqasha omunye umuntu ozomsiza. Manje sekunomqhudelwano onokuthula phakathi kuka bab’ uMkhize nobab’ uMtawung, futhi wonke umuntu uthokozile.

Lo uNdalo. UNdalo uthanda ukufunda izincwadi. Lona uPendo. UPendo uthanda ukudla izaqathi. UNdalo welusa uPendo uma esebuya esikoleni. Umuphuzisa namanzi ahlanzekile. Ubaba kaNdalo upha uPendo ukudla kwakhe. Ubaba usenga uPendo nsuku zonke. UPendo unobisi oluningi. Ubaba uze aludayise ubisi. UNdalo uphuza ubisi olusha nsuku zonke. UNdalo uyabonga kuPendo.

Ngibone iloli elikhululigijima phansi leemgwaqeni. Imoto engu-Mercedesyayiza ikhuphukangomgwaqo. Umshayeli weloliwayekhulumaKumakhalekhukhwini. Wayengabhekileemgwaqeni. Kwaba khona okukhuluUkushayisana. I-ambulensinamaphoyisabeza ukuzosiza. Kwafika amaloli amabiliadonsa izimoto. Adonsakokubili imoto encaneneloli. Ngethuka.

UMondli noMbali babehlala edolobheni nobaba wabo. Babekujabulela ukuvalwa kwezikole ngoba babezovakashela ugogo wabo. Phela ugogo wayehlala kwesinye isigodi esasinedamu elikhulu lapho kwakudotshwa khona izinhlanzi. Abantu bakule ndawo babekhonzile ukudoba. UMondli-ke babejabule kakhulu kulokhu ngoba nabo ngalesi sikhathi, babezovakashela ugogo wabo ohlala kulesi sigodi esinedamu. Ngobusuku okwakuzosa bahambe ngabo, bapakisha izikhwama balungiselela uhambo olude oluya kwagogo. Ubuthongo babungafiki, bexoxa ubusuku bonke, izinhliziyo zilangazelela leli holide. Ekuseni ngovivi, baqala uhambo lwabo ngemoto kababa wabo. Imoto yayihamba idlula izintaba, amaqguma, wena zilwane zasendle namasimu. Babeloku bebalana nezimoto eziphambana nabo nalezo abazedlulayo. Babebuye bacule bejabulele indlela. Emva kwesikhashana, lapho ubaba ezwa sekuthule, waqalaza, wabathola sebefile ubuthongo. Kuthe sebengena esigodini lapho ugogo ehlala khona, ubaba wabo wabavusa. Nanguya ugogo, uNobuntu, eziphumulele phansi kwesihlahla. Ugogo kwakuyintombi ezithandayo, ebathanda abantu njengegama lakhe. Wayemuhle, ekhuthele, ephiwe nempilo enhle. Ugogo wathi vuthu lapho ayehleli khona, wabamukela, egidagida, ecula yedwana yinjabulo yokubona abazukulu bakhe. Nabo abazukulu babejabule. Ngokushesha babekhipha imithwalo yabo, bedlulisa nezipho ababeziphathele ugogo edolobheni. "Gogo! Gogo! Vula esami kuqala isipho," kumemeza uMondli. NoMbali naye ngapha ubelesele, ufuna ugogo avule esakhe isipho kuqala. Emva kokuvulwa kwezipho, ugogo wababusisa ngokwesiko labo. UMondli noMbali, nabaya, phandle sebeyogijimisa izinkukhu namadada, bafuna nokubamba izinyoni. Abazukulu babekujabulele ukuba kwagogo, bemsiza ngemisebenzi yasekhaya, bedlala nemidlalo abangayijwayele njengokucaca izihlahla nokubhukuda edamini. Ngakusihlwa babebuya endlini bekhathele, bafike badle. Kwesinye isikhathi babengaqedi naloko kudla abakubekelwe, babanjwe ubuthongo nokukhathala. Ngosuku olulandelayo, ubaba wabo waphindela edolobheni, wabashiya bezijabulisa nogogo wabo. UMondli noMbali basiza ugogo wabo ngokwenza imisebenzi yasendlini. Babekha amanzi batheze izinkuni. Babeqoqa namaqanda ezidlekeni zezinkukhu babuye bakhe imifino engadini. Ugogo wayesefundise abazukulu nokupheka ukudla kwesintu kanye nokunye okulula. Ngelinye ilanga ekuseni uMondli wakhipha izinkomo zikagogo edlelweni, ethi uyokwelusa. Zagijima zangena epulazini likamakhelwane. Umakhelwane owayengumlimi wathukuthela efuna nokuzivalela ngoba zidle izitshalo zakhe. Emva kwalokhu uMondli waqinisekisa ukuthi azisophinde zingene enkingeni efana nalena. Ngolunye usuku, izingane zahamba noNobuntu zaya emakethe. Wayenetafula lapho ayethengisa khona imifino, izithelo nezinye izinto ezincane ezidingwa umphakathi. UMbali wayethanda ukutshela abathengi ukuthi izinto zibiza malini, ahlanganise, athathe imali. UMondli yena, wayesongela abathengi izimpahla zabo abazithengile. Ekupheleni kosuku, babephuza itiye babukeze usuku, kube mnandi. Abazukulu bebemsiza ugogo ukubala imali ayenzile ngalolo suku. Kodwa amaholide asheshe aphela. Kwasekufanele ukuthi babuyele esikoleni edolobheni. Ugogo wapha uMondli ikepisi kanti uMbali wamupha ijezi. Wabapakishela nomphako wendlela ephindela edolobheni. Babengasafuni ukugoduka, lapho ubaba wabo efika esezobalanda. Bancenga ugogo ukuba ahambe nabo, aye edolobheni. Wayevele amoyizele athi, "Sengimdala kakhulu ukuthi ngingahlala edolobheni. Ugogo uzosala lapha ukuze nibuye futhi nizojabulela amaholide ahlukile." Bavalelisa, bamanga ugogo ngezinhliziyo ezibuhlungu. Baphindela edolobheni, bafike baxoxela abangane babo ngamaholide abo kwagogo wabo nangempilo yasemaphandleni. Ezinye izingane zazithi impilo yasedolobheni yinhle. Ezinye kodwa zazicabanga ukuthi eyasemaphandleni ingcono. Ngaphezu kwako konke, zonke izingane esikoleni zazivumelana ngokuthi uMondli no Mbali babenogogo oyisimanga!

Umndeni wami wonke uya eZu namuhla. Sizohamba ngemoto kababa sonke. Sizobuka izilwane sonke. Awu, nali ibhubesi! Nayi indlovu. Fuze sesizibone zonke izilwane? Bona, nanguya u-ayisikhilimu. Nangaya amaswidi. Nazi zonke ezinye izinto ezimnandi. Ubaba usithengela zonke lezi zinto nokunye okumnandi. Ngathi sesizofika isikhathi sokubuyela ekhaya. Bekumnandi ukuba nomndeni wezilwane. Ave, kumnandi ukuba ngumndeni sisonke! Ingathi malanga onke singaba kunye singumndeni!

Kwasuka sukela, kwakunendodaeyayihlupheka nomfazi wayo.Babenengane eyodwa voyentombazane, igama layokunguNonkungu.uNonkungu wayemuhle futhielungile. Abazali bakhebabemthanda kakhulu. Ngelinye ilanga abazali bakhebamhambisa kumalume wakheuMntonyama owayeyisicebi.Umama kaNonkunguwamthungela isiketi sekhethelo,esinelibhini, nezinkinobhokanye nobuhlalo.Wamenzela nomgexo omuhleowenziwe ngobuhlalu. Endleleni uNonkungu waficaumfula okwakumele awuweleenyathela ematsheni.Ngaphesheya komfulawahlangana nentombazanyanaeyayigqoke itshali. “Uyaphi?" kubuzaintombazanyana.“Ngivakashela umalume wamiuMntonyama," kushouNonkungu.“Kulungile uMntonyamaungumalume wami, futhi namingisendleleni evakashela yena,"kusho intombazanyana.Babe sebehambisana ke. Bengakahambi nje ibanga elideintombazanyana yathi,“Isiketi sakho sihle kanyenobuhlalu bakho. Ngicelaungiboleke kengibulinganise.”uNonkungu wakhumula isiketikanye nobuhlalo wanikaintombazanyana. Ngesikhathi intombazanyanaikhumula itshali layo igqokaingubo kaNonkungu,uNonkungu wabona ukuthi lentombazanyana inomsila!uNonkungu waqala ukwesaba.Waba nesiqiniseko sokuthilentombazanyana iyimbulu. Baqhubeka bahambisana.“Ngicela ungibuyisele isiketisami kanye nobuhlalu ,” kushouNonkungu.Kodwa imbulu yathi,“Ngivumele ngibugqoke sizesifike kulesiya sihlahla."Isho ikhomba isihlahlaesisegqumeni. Bathi sebefike esihlahleni,uNonkungu wathi kwimbulu,“Ngicela ungibuyisele isiketisami kanye nobuhlalu bami.”“Ngivumele ngisigqoke sizesifike emfuleni olandelayo,"kusho imbulu.UNonkungu wayesesaba,wavuma. Ekugcineni bafika emfuleni.Waphinda uNonkungu wacelaimbulu, “Ngicela ungibuyiseleisiketi sami kanye nobuhlalo."“Ngivumele ngisigqoke sizesifike kuleyandlu ehleliomama," kusho imbulu.Baqhubeka bahamba. Bathi sebefika kuleyondluenomama, imbulu yashiyauNonkungu yase ithi,“Anibheke lentombazaneegqoke itshali. Kade ilokhuingilandela yonke indlela.Ngifisa sengathi ingasuka la."UNonkungu wayephoxekile futhiethukile, wase waya esibayeniwayocasha. Imbulu yabe seyiya endlinikamalume uMntonyama, yafikeyathi,“Ngingumshana wakho,uNonkungu. Abazali bamibangithumele ukuba ngizohlalanawe."UMntonyama wayemukelaintombazanyana. Yenanomndeni wakhe bayiphathakahle imbulu.Kodwa bandla uNonkunguwayelala esibayeni edla nezinja. Emini uNonkungu wayehambaaye emasimini, acashengamahlanga acule:"Oh mina engilusizi,ngangithunyelwe ngubabanomama, ukuba ngizohlalanomalume uMntonyama.Endleleni ngaficana nembuluyangithathela isiketi sami kanyenobuhlalo. Oh mina engilusizi.” Ngeliye ilanga omunyewabafowabo baka Mtonyana,wezwa umuntu ocula kamnandikodwa wayengawuzwa ukuthilomculo uqhamuka ngakuphi.Wathi uma efika ekhayawaxoxela uMntonyane ngeculo.Ngaso leso sikhathi uMntonyanewaphuthuma emasimini.Walizwa iculo wamfuna wazewamthola uNonkungu. uNonkungu wamxoxela ukubakwenzekani , ukuthi imbuluyazithatha kanjani izingubozakhe yase yamembathisaitshali.uMntonyama wamthathauNonkungu wahamba nayewafike wamfihla endlini.uMntonyama wayesazi ukuthiimbulu uzoyibamba kanjani. UMtonyama wayeke wezwaukuthi umsila wembuluuyaluthanda ubisi, kangangobaawukwazi ukudlula obisiniengaluphuzanga.Wacela amadoda ukuthi ambeumgodi bese bethela amasiphakathi.Wabe esebiza wonkeamantobazanyanaasemphakathini ukubaazongenela umncintiswanowokweqa umgodi. Intombazanyana eyayigqokeisiketi nobuhlalu bukaNonkunguyayikhathazekile. Yayingafuniukweqa umgodi. Yayazi ukuthiumsila wayo uzonxanelwaamasi.Yahamba yaya endliniyawubophela emhlane.Yabuyela endaweni yayokwamanye amantombazane. Yathi uma yeqa umgodi, umsilawayo waqonda emasini. Ngesikhathi imbulu isazabalazaemgodini onamasi, amadodaavala umgodi ngenhlabathingokushesha. Bayingcwabalapho.Kwabe sekungukuphelangembulu.Kodwa uNonkungu wahlalangokujabula kwamalume wakheisikhathi eside.Cosi cosi yaphela.

intombazane inyoni ibhubesi ikati

Kungani ingane ikhala? Ngicabanga ukuthiilambile. Kungani umfanaephatheke kabi? Ngicabanga ukuthiukhumbula ubabawakhe. Kungani intombazaneijabule? Unengubo entsha. Kungani indoda endalaihleka? Ufunda ihlayaelihlekisayo. Kungani owesifazaneemamatheka? Abantwana bakhebafunda ngokuthula. Ngabe uzizwa kanjani lowesifazane? Ngicabanga ukuthiuzizwa enamahloni.

Yayiyodwa ibhasi edolobheni lika-Ebei. Yayinkulu futhi iluhlaza okwesibhakabhaka. Yayinomsindo omkhulu. Ngelinye ilanga umama ka-Ebei wathi, "Kusasa sizokuya edolobheni siyothenga umfaniswano wakho." U-Ebei wajabula kakhulu. Babezohamba ngebhasi enkulu eluhlaza okwesibhakabhaka. Kwakungavumi ukuba alale ebusuku. U-Ebei wayesevele esegqokile lapho umama wakhe engena ezomvusa. U-Ebei nomama wakhe baya esitobhini. Balindela ibhasi enkulu eluhlaza okwesibhakabhaka. Kodwa ibhasi ayizange ifike. Abanye abantu bafika esitobhini. Babekhononda ngoba ibhasi yayingasigcinanga isikhathi. "Ngabe ibhasi isishiyile?" Babebuza. U-Ebei wakhathazeka. "Ngeke sikwazi ukuya edolobheni. Ngeke ngikwazi ukuthola umfaniswano wami," ecabanga. Abanye abantu baduba babuyela emakhaya. Kodwa u-Ebei wayekhala engafuni ukuya ekhaya. Kodwa umama wakhe wayemduduza ethi, "Sizolinda isikhashana eside." Masishane, bezwa umsindo. Babona izintuli emoyeni. Yayiza ibhasi! Kodwa le bhasi yayingeluhlaza okwesibhakabhaka. Yiyingenkulu. Le bhasi yayibomvu futhi incane. Abantu ababelindile bayibuka ibhasi. Abazange bagibele. "Ngenani! "Ngenani!" kumemeza umshayeli ethi, "Sishiywe isikhathi namuhla. U-Ebei nomama wakhe bangena kuqala. Ngesikhashana wonke umuntu wangena ebhasini elibomvu elincane. U-Ebei wabuka phandle ngefasitela. Wabona abanye abantu abaningi esitobhini. Abanye abantu abaningi babegijima bejahe ukugibela ibhasi. Kodwa basebeshiywe isikhathi. Ibhasi yase igcwele. Ibhasi ebomvu yahamba yaya edolobheni. "Iphi ibhasi enkulu eluhlaza okwesibhakabhaka?" Kubuza umama ka Ebei. "Ifile," kuphendula umshayeli. "Siyayilungisa, izobakhona kusasa," kusho umshayeli. U-Ebei wayengenandaba nombala webhasi. Wayengenandaba nobukhulu bebhasi. Wayejabuliswa ukuthi yayiya edolobheni.

Lalishisa ngelinye ilanga ehlobo, ehlathini elomile. Kwase kuyizinsuku eziningi uTsheketshe omncane engenamanzi. Ngidinga iconsi lamanzi, noma ngabe kungathiwa liconsa eqabungeni nje. Kodwa akusekho ngisho amazolo lawa. "Uma ngingaphuzi ngizofa, kuzomele ngiye kulomfula engake ngezwa ngawo," kusho uTsheketshe omncane. "Uzomuka nomfula, " kuxwayisa uNgwejeje ohlakaniphile. Kodwa uTsheketshe omncane wayenxanwe kakhulu. "Ngizofa uma ngingaphuzi," kusho yena. UTsheketsheke omncane wahamba wayofuna umfula. Wayenqamula otshanini obomile, nasemagatsheni omile. Kwaze kwaba uzwa umsindo wamagagasi echaphaka lapha nalaphaya. UTsheketshe omncane wahabula amanzi engaphezi. Wayejabule kangangoba akalibonanga igagasi elikhulu elabe liza lizomemboza. UTsheketshe wazama ukubambelela otshanini obomile eduze kwakhe. Kodwa wathathwa amanzi amphonsa kude. "Ngisizeni bo! Ngisizeni bo!" "Shesha gibela lana, " kusho uJuba omhlophe ebambe ukhuni ngomlomo wakhe.  "Angizukuhamba ngize ngibonge kujuba. Ngizolinda aze abuye azophuza futhi, " kusho Utsheketshe. Ngelinye ilanga esaloku alinda njalo uTsheketshe, kwaqhamuka abafana ababili bephethe izihlilingi. "Kunejuba elikhulu elimhlophe eliphuza kulomfula, lizoba ukudla kwethu kwasebusuku, " kusho omunye umfana.  "Angeke ngavumela labafana babulale uJuba omhlophe. Kodwa ngimncane kakhulu, yini nje engingayenza?". Ngawo lowo mzuzu uJuba omhlophe wandiza wehlela phansi ukuzophuza.  UTsheketshe omncane waba nesu. Wagxumela onyaweni lomfana wamluma ngamandla akhe wonke. Umfana wagxuma. "Ishuuu!" wakhala. UJuba omhlophe wethuka wandizela kude. Kwaba ukuphepha kwakhe. Kwaba ikona kubonga kwakhe uTsheketsheke kuJuba omhlophe.

Emandulo, izilwane zazingenayo imilenze. Zazihuquzela emhlabathini. Abantu kuphela ababenemilenze ngoba uMaguru wayebaphile yona. Ngelinye ilanga uMaguru wanquma ukupha zonke izilwane imilenze. Wazungeza idolobha ememezela ngombhobho. Wayefuna isilwane ngasinye sikwazi ukuhamba njengomuntu. Zajabula izilwane lapho zizwa ukuthi zizophiwa imilenze. Isilwane ngasinye sasifuna imilenze ukuze sikwazi ukuhamba nokugijima. Zacula, zatshikizisa imisila, zabhakuzisa amaphiko azo. Zahlangana izilwane zidingida ubulukhuni bokuhaqazela ngezisu. Umhlabathi wawuziklwebha izisu zazo. Imilenze yayizozisiza ukuze zikwazi ukuma zibone kude, njengabantu. Lwathi uma lufika usuku, izilwane eziningi zahaqazela zaya emzini kaMaguru ukuyokwamukela imilenze yazo. Izindlulamithi, amabhubesi, izindlovu, onogwaja, izingwenya, nezinyoni zashaya uhele zilinde ukuphiwa imilenze. Isilwane ngasinye sathola imilenze emine, kwathi izinyoni zathola imilenze emibili iyinye. Zaba nomahluko izilwane sezinemilenze. Ezinye zagida ngenxa yokujabula. Ezinye zazibhadazela zibuye ziwe zenziwa ubunzima bokuhamba ngezinyawo. Zazungeza idolobhana zibukisa kubantu. Zonke izilwane zathi, "Ngeke siphinde sihuquzele." Isilwane sokugcina emgqeni kwakunguShongololo. UMaguru wabuza, "Ukhona okulandelayo?" "Cha, ngingowokugcina," kuphendula uShongololo. UMaguru wacabanga, "Pho uma kungasekho muntu, ngizoyenzani yonke le milenze esele?" UMaguru wanika uShongololo yonke imilenze esele. UShongololo wahamba ejabule kakhulu ngoba ethole imilenze eminingi. "Sengizoshesha kakhulu kunabo bonke," ecabanga. Maduze nje emva kokuhamba kukaShongololo, kwafika uNyoka emzini kaMaguru. "Maguru, ngicela ungiphe imilenze," kuncenga uNyoka. "Sengiyikhiphe yonke imilenze. Wena ubukuphi?" kubuza uMaguru. "Ngiseliwe," kuphendula uNyoka. UMaguru wacinga endlini yakhe ukubona ukuthi ayikho yini imilenze esele. Kodwa akatholanga lutho. UMaguru waphuma wathi, "Ngiyaxolisa Nyoka, ayisekho imilenze esele." UNyoka wahuquzela wabuyela ekhaya engenayo imilenze. Kusukela ngalelo langa uNyoka akalali kakhulu. Uhlale elindele usuku lapho naye ayothola imilenze.

UAnasi isicabucabu kanyenoNogwaja babengabangani .Babehlala endaweni enokuthulaezintabeni .Unogwaja wayephethe epulazinielikhulu elinothile elinemifinonezithelo .Nokuba Unogwajababehlanganyela ngesandlaesivulekile nomngani wakhe ,uAnansi bekangathokozile futhienomona . Ngakho uAnansi wacabangaiqhinga elihlakaniphilelokuthatha ipulazi laka Nogwaja.Ngokushesha unogwaja wasalaebampofu futhiengenakhaya . U Anansi wabangumnikazi ozidlayo womhlabawonke kanogwaja,imifino, nezithelo . uAnansi waya emakethe ukubaathengiseizithelo zakhe nemifino .Wenza imali kangangokubawazewagcwalisa ubhasikidi omkhulungayo!Ngenye imali , wathengelaumndeni wakhe ummbila ,wawubekaphezu kwebhasikidi lemali . uAnansi ephethwe yinjabuloeya ekhayanebasikidi lakhe phezukwekhanda lakhe , ecula .Wayecabanga zonke izintowayezozithenga ngemali yakhe Endleleni laqala Ukukhemezela.Ngokushesha Ukukhemezelakwaphenduka kwaba yesindayoimvula.U Anansi isicabucabu washiyaubhasikidi wakheeceleni kwendlela eyaeyokukhosela ngaphansikwesihlahla . Kodwa kusukelalapho waqhubeka waqaphelisisakubhasikidi wakhe oyigugu Laqala ukuna kakhulungamandla,futhi uAnansi wathola ukubandafuthi wabamanzi . Ngakhowagijimela emgodini ." Mina ngizo hlala kulo mgodiize ithulue imvula, " kusho uAnansi ngokwakhe . "okungenani imali yami ivikelwewumbila engiwubeke phezu kwayo. Emva kwesikhashana , uNqeezindizela emhlabeni wabonaubhasikidi eceleni komgwaqo .Wabona ukuthi kwakukhonaimali kanyenommbila kubhasikidi .Ngakho wamboza ubhasikidinge wakheamaphiko futhi walindelaimvulaithule. uAnansi wabona unqe ehlezikubhasikidi wakhe ."Oh ngiyabonga , mnganewami, ngokuthiUvikeleibhasikidi yami, "washo kuNqe."Uxolo , Anansi , angikuzwangakahle? "kubuza unqe. Ibhasikidilakho? Lo bhasikidi ungowami!Ngiwuthole lapha ohlangothinilomgwaqo!"uAnansi akakholelwangaayekuzwa ngezindlebe zakhe !"Elami , ngisho kuwe!" Ngokuthukuthela , uAnansiwahamba wababikela ukwebakwinduna. kodwa uNqe wathikwinduna namadoda amadalawakhe ,"Kwakungenzekakanjani ukuba umuntu ashiyeubhasikidi ogcwele imalinommbila ungagadwangaemgaqweni?""Kodwa bengiyibhekileibhasikidi yami,"kusho uAnansi."imali yami Kanye nommbilawami!""Benginakekele ibhasikidingaphambi kokuthi wena ufikeuthi eyakho!" ,kuphendulauNqe. Lapho induna namalunga wayobemamele kahle nhlangothizombili,Baxosha uAnansi no Nqe.Baxoxa ngalendaba isikhathieside.Ekugcineni bathola isinqumo . Babiza uAnansi Kanye no Nqefuthi" Sikholelwa indaba ka Nqe ,"basebathi. "Akasilo isela .ubuzama ukuyenga okuthileokwakungesikho okwakho."uAnansi akazange akukholelweayekuzwa ngezindlebe zakhe!Waqhumuka wakhala . Ngokushesha lezi zindabazanda zokuthi ukuhlulelwakwahamba ngokumelananoAnansi.Wathi ehamba , wezwauNogwaja ehleka ehleka.UNogwaja waphindela emumvaepulazini lakhewakhulisa izithelo nemifino.Kepha uAnansi wabampofufuthi, engenabo abangani

Emandulo, kwakukhona indoda eyayinothile –inepulazi elikhulu elivundile, inezinkomo,amagusha nezimbuzi. Kodwa, ngesikhathi ikhula, kwakhula nokudinwa, ngoba kwakukhonaokwasekushoda emnothweni wayo. Wayengenaye unkosikazi. Emile ngaphansi kwesihlahlawafikelwa yisu elihle kakhulu.Uma egcina engamtholi umfazi,mhlawumbe angazenzela owakhe? Ngakhoke wabaza owesifazaneomuhle egatsheni lesihlahlaesiqinile.Wathi uma eseqedile ukwenzaisichushe sakhe wathinta amehloakhe avuleka. Ngesinekewamphefumulela, wavele waphilawaphefumula. Wayengowesifazane omuhleukwedlula bonke.Waguqa phambi kwakhe wamcelaukuba abe umfazi wakhe. Wamfaka isibhaxelo, ubuhlalunesicoco njengophawu lomshado.Wamakhela umuzi ngodakanotshani lapho ayehlala anabekhona.“Kukhona into eyodwaengiyicelayo,” washo kumkakhe“Ungatsheli noyedwa ukuthingikuthathephi” Kungekudala izinsizwaezingomakhelwane zaqala zaxoxazodwa.“Kungenzeka kanjani ukuthi ikhehlalingaba nonkosikazi omuhle kanje?Banquma ukumtshontsha.Bamthatha bamfaka esibayenisabo. Inhliziyo yekhehla yayibuhlungu.Wazizwa engakwazi ukuphilangaphandle kwakhe.Wacabanga, “Mhlawumbe ukubabenginotho lwakhe. Ngabeangibuhlungu kanje?”Wathumela amajuba amabiliukuyomfuna, amculela bese ebuyanento yakhe. Uma esemtholile amculela ngolimilwezinyoniMfazi, mfazi oyiyisihlahla omuhleukwedlula abanye abafaziIndoda yakho isithumile ukuthisizolanda isibhaxelo sakho! Wawanika isibhaxelo andiza phezu kwezindlu kwamaqguma naphezu kwemifula aze ayofikaendodeni yakhe. Wasithatha wasibeka ebusweni sathi ukumdududuza isikhashana. Umzwangedwa mamudla njalo.Ngakho ke wathumela amajubafuthi ukuthi ayomculela:Mfazi oyisihlahla,Mfazi oyisihlahla,omuhle ukwedlula abanye abafazi,Indoda yakho isithumile ukuthisizolanda isicoco sakho!Nempela zasithatha zandiza naso. Wabamba isicoco somkakhewabubula ebalisa ngomkakhe elekude esibayeni lapho insizwa zabezimbeke khona.Emva kwesikhashana wabizaamajuba futhi. Hambaniniyomculela,Mfazi oyisihlahla,Mfazi oyisihlahla omuhle ukwedlulaabanye abafazi, indoda yakhoisithumile ukuthi sizokulandaubuyele ekhaya! Ngesikhathi amajuba ephindelakuye okwesithathu, afike ahlalaphezu kwamahlombe akhe. Aculaiculo lawo, ijuba lakopolota isolakhe.Ngokushesha waphendukaisichushe futhi. Izingalo nekhandalakhe kwawohloka. Indoda yakhe yagingqela isiqusomzimba wakhe emfuleni.Wamvusa wammisa ngezimpandezakhe emanzini. Elekelelwa ilanganamanzi wamila amaqabunga futhi. Ngesikhathi umoya uvunguzaamaqabunga awa.Njengokukhophoza komfazi umaebona umyeni wakhe.

Ngelinye ilanga uFudu abe ehamba otshanini. Abehamba ecinga ecinga.Ecingelaekudeni otshanini. Wadlula uMnenke. “Ingabe kukhona okucingayo?" kubuza uMnenke. "Yebo,Mnenke, ngicingana nendlu yami. Ingabe uyibonile yini?" uMnenke wathi:"Cha, angikaze ngiyibone, kodwa ngizokusiza ukuyicinga!"wagibela ngaphezulu kuFudu.uFudu wahamba uMnenke ehleli ngemuva kwakhe.Bacinga bacinga, kodwa uphawu lwendlu belungekho. Ilanga beliphezuluesibhakabhakeni. Muva nje, badlula uNyoni omduna.'Ingabe kukhona okucingayo?" kubuza uNyoni omduna. "Yebo, Nyoni omduna,ngicingana nendlu yami. Ngabe uyibonile yini?" uNyoni omduna wathi:"Cha,angikaze giyibone, kodwa ngizokusiza ukuyicinga!" uFudu ucingana nendlu yakhe. Walungisa izimpiko zakhewaphapha wahamba. "Kodwauhamba kakhulu kunami,"kukhononda ufudu. uNyoniomduna wabuya. "kulungile,ngizozuba ngihlale kuwe." uFudu waqhubeka wahamba,eno Mnenke kanye Nyoniomduna beminyene emhlanewaka Fudu. Bacinga bacingakodwa uphawu lwendlubelungekho. Ilanga beselehlileesibhakabhakeni. Muva nje badlula uNyoni omsikazi. "Ingabe kukhona okucingayo?' kubuza uNyoniomsikazi. "Yebo Nyoni omsikazi, ngicingana nendlu yami. Ingabe uyibonile yini? uNyoni omsikazi wathi:"Cha,angikaze ngiyibone, kodwangizokusiza ukuyicinga!"Wazuba ngemuva kuka Fudu,waqhubeka uFudu enoMnenke,uNyoni omduna kanye noNyoniomsikazi Bacinga bacingakodwa uphawu lwendlubelungekho. Umoya waqalaukuhhusha. Muva badlula uGundwane. Bekenza umqhele wezimbali. "Ingabe kukhonaokucingayo?" kubuza uGundwane. "Yebo, Gundwane, Ngicingana nendlu yami.Ingabe uyibonile yini?" uGundwane wathi :"Cha,angikaze ngiyibone, kodwangizokusiza ukuyifuna!" Wazubangemuva kuka Fudu. "Yima,angeke ngikwazi ukushiyaizimbali zami ngemuva." uFuduwema.uGundwane wazinwebawazinweba wathatha izimbalizakhe. uFudu waqhubeka wahambaeno Mnenke, uNyoni omduna,uNyoni omsikazi kanye noGundwane ngemuva kwakhe.Bacinga bacinga kodwa uphawulwendlu belungekho. Umoyawashanela amacembe phansi,wabahlanganisa nezinyawozakaFudu. uFudu wakhathala."Nonke niyasinda," wakhokhaumoya uMoya waba namandla.Isibhakabhaka satshintsha sabamnyama. "Hhhooo, iphi indluyami?" kubuza uFudu. Ukudumakwezulu kuzwakala ezintabeni.Umbani ushayela ekudeni. Yezaimvula. "Hhooo, iphi indlu kaFudu?" kubuza umnenke,uNyoniomduna, uNyoni omsikazi kanyenoGundwane. uMoya wahhusha wakhukhula. Waphephula umnenke,uNyoni omduna, uNyoniomsikazi kanye no Gundwane, ebasusa emhlane waka Fudu. Bese yeza imvula. uFudu waba nokuthuka, wazishobeza egogogweni lakhe.Lapho bekufudumala futhi kubuthebelele."Hhooo, nayi indlu yami!" "Hhooo, nayi indluka-Fudu!"

Kwakunentombazanaeyayikwazi ukudansa Noma uthisda efundisawayedansa Noma eskhayawayezidansela ephulaejabulile endanselanogogo wakhe. U Sindiswawayedansela nabantuehlolo. Ngemphelawayekutha futhi ekwaziukudansa.  Wagcina esedume kakhulu izithombe zakhezazibekwe ema bhodini amakhuluedolobheni

Siyazi ukuthi indlovu inomboko omude. Emandulo umboko wendlovu wawumfishane. Wawubukeka kabi. Kwazalwa inkonyane eyayithanda izinto. Yayihlala inombuzo ngezinye izilwane. Yahlangana nendlulamithi. "Kungani unentamo ende?" Ngakusasa yahlangana nobhejane. "Kungani unophondo olucijile?" Yaphinde yahlangana nemvubu. "Kungani unamehlo abomvu?" Ngoba yayithanda izinto, yafuna ukwazi ngengwenya. Ngabe ingwenya idlani ngesidlo sakusihlwa? "Ungalokothi ubuze umbuzo onjalo!" kusho umama wayo. Yahamba inyukubele. Ngokushesha igwababa landizela phansi, lahlala eduze kwendlovu. Lathi, "Ngilandele siye emfuleni, uzobona-ke ukuthi ingwenya idlani kusihlwa." Nangempela indlovu yalandela igwababa. Indlovu yazimpintsha yangena emhlangeni yama osebeni lomfula. Iphi ingwenya pho? "Sawubona," kusho itshe ngasosebeni lomfula. "Yebo," kuphendula indlovu. "Ungangitshela ukuthi ingwenya idlani ngesidlo sakusihlwa?" "Lalela-ke, goba ngizokutshela," kuphendula itshe. "Goba futhi, futhi," kuqhubeka itshe. Nangempela indlovu yehlela phansi yaze." "Ngqi!" Ikhala layo lase lise mhlathini wengwenya. "Helele! Izodla wena ingwenya ngesidlo sakusihlwa!" kutswininiza igwababa. Indlovu yazabalaza ngemilenze yayo yangemuva eqinile, yadonsa, yadonsa, yadonsa. Ingwenya ayizange iyidedele. Ikhala lendlovu ladonseka, ladonseka, ladonseka. Dalakaxa! Yawa yashayeka ngomhlane odakeni. Tshobe ingwenya emanzini. "Ngaze ngaphuthelwa ukudla okumnandi!" Indlovu yabheka umboko wayo. "Maye! Ikhala lami leli, elide kangaka?" Lalilide kangangoba lalikwazi ukufinyelela emagatsheni aphezulu esihlahleni. Indlovu kwayisiza lokhu. Yayisikwazi ukuzigeza umhlane wayo ngamanzi uma ilanga lishisa. Kusukela ngalelo langa, zonke izindlovu zinemiboko emide elusizo kuzona.

"Mama," kusho uThandi."Bheka zonke lezizimpahla sezincane. Ngizogqokani?""Linganisa ngibone, Thandi," kusho umama. "Bheka isiketi siyangiqina," kusho uThandi elinganisa."Uqinisile, sincane. Sinike uJabulile," kusho umama. "Bheka nje lelibhulukwe, alingeni," kusho uThandi elinganisa.Uqinisile, lincane. Linike uJabulile," kusho umama. "Bheka mama lesikibha, naso sincane," kusho uThandielinganisa."Uqinisile, naso sincane. Sinike uJabulile," kusho umama. "Bheka mama lelijezi, nalo lincane," kusho uThandielinganisa."Uqinisile, lincane. Linike uJabulile nalo," kusho umama. '"Bheka ijazi lami lemvula lincane," kusho uThandielinganisa."Uqinisile, nalo lincane. Linike uJabulile," kusho umama. "Bheka lamasokisi ami, mancane," asho uThandi ekhononda."Uqinisile, mancane. Anike uJabulile nawo," kusho umamaemduduza. "Bheka lezi zicathulo. Ekhu, ziyangiqina!" kusho uThandi."Uqinisile, nazo zincane. Zinike uJabulile," kusho umama. "Unezimpahla eziningi manje, Jabulile! Zithathe zonke,"kusho uThandi."Kodwa zinkulu zonke nje lezizimpahla!" kusho uJabulile.

Ngu Mgqibelo ntambama, ilanga lalikhipa inhlanzi emanzini. "Zanele, Nosipho no Sanele. Phumani niyodlala ngaphandle." Kusho umama. Nangempela saphuma silandelana. Khona manjalo kwezwakala uSanele ethi, "Masihambeni siyodlala ngasemfuleni, kupholile lapho." "Hhayi-bo! Umama wasitshela kahle ukuthi singayi ukuyobhukuda emfuleni." Kulanda uZanele. "Ngeke sibhukude, sizozidlalela emthunzini eduze namanzi," kuphendula uSanele. Kodwa nokudlala nako, kufakelana ukushisa noma ungahlala emthunzini eduze nomfula. Saqala ngokukhipha izicathulo kodwa ukushisa kwathi ngikhona. Sakhumula amahembe neziketi, kodwa sasisezwela ukushisa. Ngokushesha safaka izinyawo zethu emfuleni ukuze sizipholise. Sathelana ngamanzi. Kwagcina ngokuthi sibe manzi te! "Kumnandi bakithi masivele sibhukudeni. Umama ngeke azi," kusho uNosipho. Sangena emanzini, sashaya amadamudamu sibhukuda kumnandi. Sakhohlwa. Lashona ilanga, saqala sagodola. "Ziphi izingubo zethu?" sibuzana sodwa. Sabheka, sabheka, do! Safuna phasi kwezihlahla. Ngubo wawula! Safuna esikhotheni, do! Sabheka yonke indawo. Eduze nomfula kwakunezinkomo zizidlela, ezinye zizetshisela utshani zinanela ubumnandi botshani. Kwathi lapho uZanele ebheka phezulu, "Hhabe! Yini le esemlonyeni wenkomazi?" USanele waphendula ngokunganaki, "Idla imbali ebomvu." Ngokushesha uNosipho wamemeza, "Hehehe! Bhekisisa, akuyona imbali, ihembe lakho!" Thushu! Nansi enye inkomo, nayo yayihlafuna okuluhlazana okwesibhakabhaka. "Isiketi sami!" kumemeza uZanele. Sizokwenzenjani? Kwakumele siphindele ekhaya. Sahamba ngezimpahla zangaphansi, siqhaqhazela sibheke ekhaya. Sasingasagodoliswa umoya opholile, kodwa sasiqhaqhazeliswa isenzo sezinkomo. Sahamba sikhala, "Izingubo zethu zidliwe izinkomo!" Ucabanga ukuthi umama wakholwa yindaba esasixoxa ngezinyembezi? LUTHO! Ngokushesha, izinqe zethu zase zifudunyezwe induku.

Indlovu eyodwa iya kophuza. Izindlulamithi ezimbili ziya kophuza. Izinyathi ezintathu namalanda amane.@Zonke ziya kophuza. Izimpala ezinhlanu nezintibane eziyisithupha ziya kophuza. Amadube ayisikhombisa aya kophuza. Amaxoxo ayisishiyagalombili nezinhlanzi@eziyishiyagalolunye. Zihlezi emanzini. Kwafika ibhubesi elilodwa lizophuza. Ubani osaba ibhubesi? Indlovu eyodwa iphuza nebhubesi.

UThami wayehlala endaweni yaseMadadeni. Ngelinye ilangawahamba nomfowabo u-Ayandaukuyokha amanzi. Wathiesagcwalisa ibhodwe lamanziemfuleni uAyanda wabonaunogwaja. Ibhodwe lika Thami lase ligcweleeselungele ukubuyela ekhaya.Waqala ebheka umfowabo uAyandakodwa akazange ambone.Wahamba wahamba embhekaekugcineni waze wamtholaeziphumulele otshanini ngemuvakwesiduli esikhulu. Ngesikhathi esondela u-Ayanda wayebeke umunwe wakhe ezindebeni. Eduze njekwakuneqembu lamadoda ayehlezi ephumulile. Lamadoda ayephethe imicibisholo kanyenamahawu!"Ayanda," kuhlebeza uThami . “Lawomadoda angabahlaseli bazele ukuzontshontshaizinkomo baphinde bashise indawo yangakithi. Woza ngokushesha sigijime siyoxwayisaumphakathi wangakithi." Sebeseduze nasendaweniyangakubo bahlangana nomalumewabo. Wayehambisa izinkomoukuba ziyophuza. uThamiwamemeza ethi “Baleka malume,baleka! Amadoda ayezaukuzokweba izinkomo bashisenendawo yethu.”Umalume wamemeza izinkomozakhe wase emlekelela ukubaagijime aye emphakathini. Buqamama uThami wabona u-antiwakhe esebenza emasimini waseememeza ethi “Baleka anti, baleka!Amadoda ayeza ukuzokwebaizinkomo ashise nendawo yethu!"U-anti wathatha igejalakhe kanyenengane ayeyilalisile wabaleka eyaemphakathini. Buqamama uThami wabonaumkhulu wakhe exhugeza endlelenieqhuba imbongolo eyayithweleinhlamvu.Wamemeza ethi, “Baleka mkhulu,baleka!. Amadoda ayezaukuzokweba izinkomo ashisenendawo yethu!"Umkhulu waphakamisa indukuyakhe ngokushesha waqhubaimbongolo kwaze kwaba iyadlulaemphakathini. Bathi bangafika emphakathiniuThami no Ayanda babiza bonkeabantu bethi “Balekani, balekani.Amadoda ayeza azokweba izinkomobashise nendawo yethu!"Umphakathi wawethukile kodwaungazi ukuthi ungenza njani nomaungacasha kuphi.Wawuzozifihla kuphi izinkomozawo?Wawuzozifihla kuphi izinhlamvuzawo?Wona umphakathi wawuzocashakuphi? UThami wayethuke kakhulu kodwawakhumbula indawo lapho babekebayodlala khona beno Ayanda.Indawo ephephile.Indawo eyimfihlo. Wathatha isigubhu wasishayakakhulu.Bam Bam Bam Boom Boom BoomBonke abantu emphakathini bama.UThami wamemeza wathi,“Nginendawo yokucashangilandeleni."Wabamba uAyanda ngengalo. Baqala indlela eya esihlahleniesasingekho kude.“Kungani nisiletha lapha? Angekesikwazi ukucasha lapha," kushoumphakathi.UThami wathi kubaba wakhe,“Woza ngizokukhombise.”Banwebela baze bafika embobenievulekile phezulu esihlahleni.uThami nobaba wakhe behlelaphansi ngaphakathi esiswinisesihlahla. Sasivulekilengaphakathi. UThami nobaba wakhe bavulaimbono eceleni esihlahleni. Wonkeumphakathi wakwazi ukungenangaphakathi esihlahleni.Abanye babephethe ukudla kanyenamabhodwe.Abanye bephethe amagusha,izimbuzi kanye nezinkomo.Okwakumangaza wonke umuntuwasithola isikhala ngaphakathi. Lashona ilanga.Abahlaseli batheleka emphakathiningoba kwase kumnyama.Ngaphakathi esihlahleniumphakathi wawulindele noma yini.Kwakubanda, belambile futhibenokwesaba.Ngabe yini eyayizokwenzeka? UThami wathi, “Kuyabanda.Masibaseni umlilo.“Wathatha amatshe amabiliwawahlanganisa. Wokheleka umlilo.Ngokushesha umlilo ofudumeleokhanyayo wabe sowuvutha. Ilangabi lenyuka ngesihlahla.Esiqwini kwase kungasabhekekingenxa yokuhlaba kwelangabi.Ukuvutha kwaya kwaza kokhelekanamagatsha. Intuthuyayisiphothana ibheke phezuluesibhakabhakeni. Ngaphandle amasela asibona lesi sihlahla.“Imimoya!" bekhala , besaba.Isela lokuqala laphenduka labaleka. Nelinye ngokunjalolaphenduka labaleka.Nabanye kanye nabanye. Kwaze kwaba bonke bayabaleka.Umphakathi wase Ombalantu wasinda. Yini oyicabangayo?Ngabe nguThami noma isihlahlaesasindisa umphakathi waseMadadeni?

Emandulo kwakukhonaumndeni owawuhlalaujabule. Abantwana babezwana.Behlale besiza abazalibabo endlini kanyenasengadini. Kodwababengavunyelweukusondela eduzekomlilo. Kwakumele benzeyonke imisebenzi yaboebusuku.Ngoba babenziwe ngamakhandlela! Kodwa omunyewabafana wayekufisaukuphumelangaphandle elangeni. Ngelinye ilangawayehalela ukuphumelangaphandle. Abafowabobamxwayisa. Kodwa kwabesekungasasizi ngalutho!Wancibilika elangenielishisayo. Abafowakhebabephatheke kabibebona umfowaboencibilika ephela. Kodwa baveza isu.Baphendula amafuthaayesencibilikilebawenza inyoni. Bamthatha umfowabooseyinyoni bambekaphezulu entabeni. Ngokuphuma kwelanga.Wandiza eculelaukukhanyakwasekuseni.

Ugogo usiphatheleizithelo emakhethe. Izithelo ziconsisaamathe. Umfowethu uVusiakakwazangaukuzibamba.Waqala ngokudlaubhanana. Hhayi bo! Ubani olumeizithelo wazishiya? Wathukuthela wafaugogo. Wathetha! Mina no Jabu sisolaukuthi nguVusi. UJabu watshela ugogoukuthi sisola uVusi. Ugogo wambuza uVusi,wavuma ukuthi nguye. UVusi waqalaukungazizwa kahle. Watshela ugogo ukuthiuphethwe yisisu. Wagijimela endliniencane. Ugogo wasibuza ukuthisifunde sifundo siningokwenzeke kuVusi?

Inganekwane eyendoda ehlala kude le emakhaya nendodana yakhe UHubhu.Abantu emakhaya bebeyizonda lendoda ngenxa yamanga. UHubhu wayelinda kubesekubusuku kulailwe amemeze “ Sizani bo! Ngihlaselwe,Ngisizeni” Abantu beza bagijima baphethe imikhonto.“ ahleke,”UHubhu ahleke kuze kubebuhlungu isisu. “Ukahle yini Hubhu?”“ Siphi isilwane esikuhlaselayo?” kubuzaabantu“ Siyengale, Sizane bo!” Elokhu ekhombaebumnyameni emuva kwezihlahlaAbantu bajikeleze befunana nesilwanebangasithola. Bamkhuze ngokuqemba amanga. Ngobunye ubusuku indodana yakhe yamuzwa ememeza, wangazwisisi imidlalokayise ngabantu. Akwaza muntu lelolanga. Akwaza muntu lelolanga ngenxa yamanga wakhe. Balinda ukhuthi ayekeleukumemeza. “Sizane bo!” Indodana yakhe yayizwa ukuthi kukhona akungalungile. Indodanayeswa into ethusayo. Indodana yagijimela phandle yabona silwane esethusayo sihlasela usise.Indodana wabayiqhawe wethusa isilwane ngesikhuni esivuthayo, Isilwanesabaleka. Isilwane sagijimela ebumnyameni. Uhubhuwaziqhanya ngendodana yakhe yeqhawe.Wayejabulile kakhulu. Kusukela ngalelolanga uHubhu wayeka ukuqamba amanga, wabonga kakhulukundodana kahle esindise impilo yakhe wayetshala noma wubani ngeghaweeliyindodana yakhe.

Kungani isibhakabhakasiluhlaza? Asihlali siluhlaza.Kunjalo? Kungani amaqabungaeluhlaza satshani? Awahlali eluhlazasatshani. Akunjalo? Kungani ubhananauphuzi? Ubhanana ovuthiweuphuzi.Ongakavuthwa uluhlazasatshani. Kungani isambulelasimnyama? Akusizona zonkeizambulela ezimnyama. Kungani igazi libomvu? Kukhona izinikamandlaegazini okuyizonaezenza igazi libebomvu. Kungani usawotiumhlophe? Angazi.

Ngilahlekelwe iphinilami lokuphebeza futhiangilitholi. Ngilibheke emvakwesivalo. Alikho. Ngilibheke eshalofini.Angilitholi. Ngilibheke phansikombhede.Angilitholanga. Ngalifuna phakathiebhokisini.Angilifanisanga. Ngalifuna ophahlenilwendlu. Ngalibheka, laphanalaphaya,angilitholanga ndawo.

UMandla yinkawu edangele.Umama wakhe umxosheekhaya. UMandla ujabhile.Angeke adle ubhanana wakhe. UMandla ukhathele kakhulungalokho angeke adle izithelo. UMandla uwe emthini elele,washayeka phansi Bhaxa!!! Kuzo zonke izinhlangothiisihlahla ziyanyakaza.Kodwa uMandla akanawoumdlandla wokubaleka. UMandla wathuka kakhulu!Habe! Yi-apula liwe emthini. UMandla udla ama-apulakakhulu.Uthi angawadla, bese asukengejubane antininize azeajuluke bese eyaphumula. Wagijima angazi lapho eyakhona.Akwaziyo wukuthi, kumeleabalekele ehlathini achashe . UMandla wagcina ethola indawalapho azodansela khona,nalapho azophumula emvakomdanso.Udla izithelo eziningiezahlukahlukene. UMandla unamandla amaningingoba udla izithelo.Ngalokho waqala ukudansa. UMandla waqala umbukisowokudansa ebukelwa yizozonke izinyamazane.Ngaphambili kokuba adanse,nangemva komdanso, uMapeudla izithelo. Ukuzivocavoca kwakhe kwakhekuhle kakhulu, ngisho neNkosiyesivande yeza ukuzobukelaumdanso. Waphenduka kanjalo inkawuyomdanso uMandla.

